Well, we're finally at it: Kingdom Hearts III.
Kind of surreal to actually be playing a game that took so long to come out, even more so when it's a series I'd effectively parted ways with, at least until April of 2022 when I started this whole ordeal.

The game starts off immediately where we left off with Dream Drop Distance, with Sora, Donald and Goofy headed off to Olympus to try and get Sora's mojo back. Commically this introductory part of the game is dubbed *Kingdom Hearts II.9*. The story here is that, uhm... Hades has released the Titans like he did in the Hercules movie, which is rather confusing seeing as how we've already fought two of them before in previous games (Rock and Ice, I was about to say that we fought the Ice Titan twice, but according Birth by Sleep's journal, *that* Ice Titan was actually a fake constructed by Hades called the Ice Colossus, but we did definitely see Hercules defeat the Rock Titan a second time in a cutscene in Kingdom Hearts II even if you consider the arena fights of the first games to be outside of canon 🤷).

This is the game where Sora and the gang finally figure out that Hercules is a child of the gods, which, uh, did make me have to think about the implications of there being gods in Kingdom Hearts for a little bit. For some reason I didn't really think about it until after having "played" Kingdom Hearts χ, where Olympus is one of the worlds you can visit, specifically while the world was *one*, although what we visit in those worlds is projections of those places from the future, so, uh... did the Greek gods exist back then too and were they just limited to that area specifically?? I think you can kind of reconcilce the idea if you think of them sort of like kami?? The game of course doesn't dwell on the topic and instead moves on to punching more Heartless on your way into the realm of the gods.

The worlds of Kingdom Hearts III are comparatively *very big* in relation to all previous entires in the series and largely seemless, with very few loading zones between areas if any, depending on the world.

So far the design ethos seems to be to put absolutely everything in, which makes sense for something that's supposed to serve as a capstone to the series (or at least this arc of it). In terms of combat you've got a veritable avanalche of options, there's magic, party members, abillities, equipment, summons/links, flowmotion, attractions, team attacks, shotlock commands, keyblade transformations, form changes, finishers... and yet... so much of it feels superfluous, like, for the past many worlds I've mostly just been using the same Keyblade plus my highest rank of Fire and of course Cure as needed. It could very well be a consequence of playing on Standard difficulty, I had somewhat of a similar issue with Kingdom Hearts II where I don't think I died a single time to any of the story bosses, though a good number of the optional fights still proved difficult. But even so, something about constantly flipping between the various modes leaves me feeling sort of detached from the action, though I did notice the game has an option shortening or leaving out the cutscenes for both Keyblade transformations and attractions, which I seriously consider enabling.

It's difficult to really talk about the story because we're in somewhat the same situation as Kingdom Hearts II where the central cast has little idea about what they're trying to do or how to do it throughout most of the game and we're sort of just farting around in the Disney worlds until someone somewhere figures something out.
Like... Maleficent and Pete's involvement throughout my 17 hours of playtime can be summed up as such: They show up and spend their time looking a big black box they don't know where is, specifically the one we saw Luxu drag off into the distance by the end of Kingdom Hearts χ Back Cover.
The Real Organization XIII is... uh, well, at the beginning of the game we presume they're trying to get their 13th Seeker of Darkness, but they also spend a good deal of time trying to vaguely hint to Sora that he's got Ventus's heart inside of his heart. They're also... eh... they've got a lot of stuff going on basically, let's get back to that later, and instead snarkily go over the individual worlds I've been to so far.

Kingdom Hearts worlds come in two overall flavours: "plot" and "filler/Disney", with the filler worlds being further sub-divided into "movie story" and "original story". Of course there's often at least some filler in the plot worlds and sometimes a *little* plot in the filler worlds, but at this point of playing the game I'm more interested in looking at the individual worlds.

I believe Kingodm Hearts III marks the first time a Disney world serves as the introductory world, which puts Olympus in a curious spot of seeming like its a plot world, though what we're actually doing in it is decidedly filler. As for its story I suppose I technically have to call it original, though it is very derivative of the Hercules movie's third act, just without the final confrontation with Hades or Megara temporarily dying.
This is the part where I should mention that some members of the Real Organization XIII show up and spout some mix of cryptic and obvious lines before disappearing but at this point that's pretty much a given.

I want to make it really clear, because I didn't really at the start, that what Sora is trying to do, and what everyone around him is asking him to do, is to attain "the power of waking", while no one, much less the game itself, provides him or the player with any indication or direction of how to do so. We know Riku got it by the end of Dream Drop Distance by unlocking the seven sleeping keyholes, which Sora also did, but the Organization's meddling caused him to lose it. I'm not exactly begging to simply repeat all of Dream Drop Distance again, but I don't think the game elaborates on why that wouldn't be an option. We're simply visiting the worlds that we visit because it's what's available for us to do. The game of course tries to justify this by saying that Sora is simply following his heart, but my point is that this, to me at least, feels aimless and unsatisfying.

Oh, right, Mickey and Riku go to the Dark World to try and find Aqua. They find the shore where we saw Aqua meet with Ansem (the Wise, not the Seeker of Darkness) but whatever trace of her they were following ends here. Then they get overwhelmed by Heartless, Riku gets swallowed up for a little bit and hears a muffled version of himself ask him if he needs his help, err... probably hinting at some Replica Riku stuff I'm guessing. His Keyblade also physically breaks in two, which isn't something I knew could even happen. I mean, it was kind of a plot point in Coded that Maleficent was able to destroy Data-Sora's facsimile Keyblade, but not the real deal that he managed to conjure eventually. They're constantly summoning and unsummoning these things, which makes me think of them as something of a manifestation of the wielder's will more than a properly tangible physical object. It feels like the only reason it would break is if the wielder's heart got messed up somehow. I would say that theory also raises questions about how Roxas would be able to wield a Keyblade since he's a Nobody, but Xemnas's little symposium at the end of Dream Drop Distance basically retcons that detail into my favour. Uh, anyways, they decide to retreat back to Yen Sid's tower and rethink their strategy.

I should probably also mention that Sora has a phone now. Chip and Dale made him one out of gummiblocks, it's called a gummiphone, and, uh, it's how we get delivered a lot of plot dumps between worlds. There's also a really strange social media angle. Like, in-universe. The loading screens will be of characters making various social media posts with dumb messages and even dumber hashtags (though they're prepended with a heart instead of a hash, so I'm inclined to call them heart-a-tags).
The phone of course comes with a photo mode (and optional selfies) and there are secret Mickey Mouse emblems hidden all around the worlds that you need to take pictures of if you want to unlock the secret ending - seemingly the only criteria, though the number of emblems you need to snap depends on your difficulty.

Twilight Town is, uh... well, I have to praise them for finally having generic NPCs out and about in areas like this, it really gives the world a way more lively feeling that I was especially missing for all of Dream Drop Distance where many of the worlds are completely devoid of NPCs outside of cutscenes. Though it's something the series has always struggled a little with. The story is really strange, we, uh... we go here because Sora thinks that the heart that's sleeping inside of him is Roxas and so he figures he should go and talk to some people who knew him, we meet Heyner, Pence and Olette, but Roxas only met their digital representations in the simulated Twilight Town so that's not much help. We instead all go to the mansions that hosts the computer containing said simulation, but access has been remotely restricted by former Organization XIII members at Radiant Garden for safety reasons or somesuch.
Errrr... we have a reaaaally long cutscene that boils down to Ienzo saying he'll analyze whatever data he has on Sora's heart and drip-feed us info as he discovers it. And then we leave. I uh... I was really confused for a little bit because we never enter the simulation or anything. The story just stops and we're expected to go somewhere else. I think the only purpose this entire section served was to put Sora in contact with Ienzo. But... like, we could've just as easily just have that contact estabilished from the word go.
Xemnas and Ansem (the Seeker of Darkness) show on top of a building to go "Just according to keikaku" while Sora and compancy enjoy a nice dinner at Uncle Scrooge's new bistro, oh, but we have to gather ingredients first. The game doesn't even care if you already gathered a bunch, no, you need to go around and wack those plants and take-away boxes to make the ingegrdients fall out so the rat from Ratatoille can cook you up a cake, damnit. Then the story of Twilight Town is done and we leave. Huh??

Oh, but we come back at some later point because Merlin wants to show us the Winnie the Pooh book again. Sora's disappeared from the cover again, so he goes in to check it out. Then... uh... we just hang out at Rabbit's house little bit, determine there's no trouble, except Sora is feeling like he's maybe growing appart from Pooh, presumably because he's growing up. Then we play the same mini-game three times and the story of 100 Acre Woods is done and we leave. Uugghh... this section was really disappointing, I have to say. The 100 Acre Woods worlds in I and II had, y'know, locations - plural - and mini-games - again, plural, they were a cozy nook, a safe haven in a world full of trouble and fighting! I think I'm reacting a little strongly because spending time there in the first game is very nostalgic for me and seeing it reduced to this just feels kind of insulting. I guess the game tries to make up for it by having Game & Watch mini-games on your gummiphone instead that you can find in treasure chests throughout the game...

The Rapunzel world feels especially tedious as we've got looong stretches of cutscenes that are *literally* just watching scenes from Tangled in the Kingdom Hearts III engine, interspersed with long stretches of running from one end of the map to the other and fighting filler enemies. The game of course leaves out certain scenes in the interest of reducing the number of characters needed to get through the story, like the guards and the bandits are entirely missing, which leads to some really bizarre leaps and holes in character motivation. It's not even like we can really assume that the "missing" scenes take place between the ones we do see, since we're together with Flynn and Rapunzel for the entirety of the story. I simply cannot overstate how pointless this world felt. I have to say, *a lot* of cutscene in this game in general so far go on for *at least* two-three minutes longer than they should. We meet Marluxia in this world and we learn that the Real Organization XIII is looking for seven new Princesses of Heart because apparently the old seven just... aren't... anymore? Yen Sid talks about this at some point later that the original princesses served their purpose and thus the light in them moved on or some such. It's, uh, hm... it's really just a terribly flimsy excuse to have more new Disney worlds.

The plot of the Toy Story world is that Young Xehanort created a parallel version of the Toy Story world to trap Andy's toys there by themselves to make them think that Andy abandonned had them and, uh, see if they actually have hearts and if they can be corrupted if so. In terms of game development it's also a convenient excuse to make Buzz Lightyear's laser work for real and not have to make assets for the human characters. If it feels like I glossed over how Young Xehanort made a parallel world it's because the game does too. I guess he can just... do that?? I mean, yeah, I know that's also kind of what was going on in Dream Drop Distance, but at least there you have the excuse of the whole dreaming aspect.
Sora's cover story in this world is that he's a toy of the character Yozora (or just happens to look like him? Unsure) from an in-universe video game called Verum Rex, that, uh, I think Nomura maybe actually wants to make for real? Your first visit to the world begins with a hard cut to a commercial/trailer for the game, which left my partner terribly confused and myself very amused because you're just suddenly hit with this Final Fantasy-looking thing out of nowhere. It's really weird because it feels almost like parody with Rex's (the T-Rex from Toy Story, just to be clear) constant simping about how cool Yozora is, but at the same time, given how much time and effort is spent on that facet, I think we're meant to at least partially agree with it?
There's also sort of a dumb drama going on with Buzz where he doesn't trust Sora and company, but then he does, but then he isn't sure, but then we prove ourselves, but then he has doubts again. And these bouts of doubt are inspired by us beating up toys piloted by Heartless. Does this feel disconnected to you too?? I don't know what they were trying to do, but it feels like they got Woody and Buzz mixed up a little. As I recall Woody was the one who had a hard time trusting strangers and accepting change, at least in the first movie.
I think what I enjoyed the most out of this world were all the made-up toys and games that they had to make packaging for. Oh, and Buzz calling Sora out for being a video-game character when he's trying to explain what's going on with the parallel dimensions got a laugh out of me too.

Next up is the Monsters Inc world. The story here is that... no, sorry, first we need to talk about how absolutely hideous Goofy looks in this world. Y'know, every time you save it puts a random character icon next to it, pooling from a group that depends on whatever world you're in. I made sure to save again whenever it landed on Goofy in this world so I wouldn't have to look at him more than necessary. Serious Pridelands Pete levels of uncanny here.
Anyway, uh, story? Yeah, the story is that a bunch of Unversed show up and interrupt the play-date that Sully and Mike had planned with Boo, so they have to get her home. The rest of the world is spent looking for the door, endlessly reiterating how we need to get Boo back home, we need to find Boo's door. I seem to recall hearing people joke about this exact part, and yeah, it's pretty bad in that regard. It also just seems to go on for a really long time. What's really strange is that we never go through any of the doors into the children's rooms.
Thematically it makes a lot of sense for the Unversed to appear in this world, so I can appreciate that much, though I still think they're a conceptual misfire. The Unversed aren't the only thing from Birth By Sleep we run in to, Sora and company also meet Vanitas for the first time. This is the part where Sora finally learns about Ventus and who's actually sleeping in his heart, but, uh... even though Vanitas is right there it's actually *Goofy* of all people who's the one doling out the expostion for some fucking reason. Like... you've got the guy right there! It's like... Kingdom Hearts III so far is mostly about characters finally getting the information they need to do what they need to do, but the information is often delivered by the "wrong" character. Goofy doesn't know any of this first hand, he's telling Sora what Mickey told *him* and it's really unsatisfying.
Thankfully the scene is interrupted by a sudden veering and collision into clown town, because just as you think we're about to have us an old-fashioned boss fight with Vanitas Sully sneaks up from behind, picks him the fuck up and throws him into one those portal doors, which they then pick up and throw into another door, and another door and then they throw that door into the door-shredder.
I was laughing so hard at this because it was doubly funny, like, the scene is legitimiately really funny on its own in terms of timing and editing, etc. But I was also laughing because from a dramaturgical point of view the game had just flushed any level of threat we might have been supposed to feel from this guy straight down the toilet. Like, he gets yeeted by a side-character in a cut-scene. Couldn't you at least have him kick our ass first? Then the door thing could've been done out of necessity.

Finally we get to Frozen world. This world is really something. The first half of it has practically no story, it's just that Sora sees Elsa running off and, thinking that she looks sad, decides to go after her. Then Larxenne shows up and uses her *lightning* powers to... pick up some ice... and... make a wall and that... makes us fall(? I think? This part of the cutscene is really terribly framed) into an ice labyrinth that goes on for a long while without a single cutscene. Like, I'm getting serious From Soft vibes here in terms of repurposed assets. I think this section was originally meant to be part of Elsa's ice palace or something, because it really doesn't make sense for it to exist on its own like this. Another colossal red flag in this regard is that we exit the area through a straight up magic portal. Remember that from the movie?
After this, we spend some more time climbing the mountain until we reach the top and we just... we just watch a prerendered cutscene that's a shot-for-shot remake of *Let It Go* in the Kingdom Hearts III engine. All of it, the entire song. I have to assume this is why the entire first half of the world has basically no story, because for whatever reason they wanted to have the song in the game. Then Larxene shows up again and uses her **lightning** powers to blow us off the mountain, then we spend the next ten minutes snowboarding down the mountain while outrunning an avalanche and some ice dragon-looking Heartless, I hope this doesn't sound very exciting, because it wasn't. Then we fight the dragons and then another avalanche makes us fall the rest of the way down the mountain.
The last half (which is more like two thirds) of this world is a clunky reenactment of the movie. Anna has a scene with Sora where she tells him about what happened between herself and Elsa when they were children and we get a flashback to *Do You Want to Build a Snowman?* But this time this isn't the whole song, no no, while the song is playing, lyrics and all, shot-for-shot choreography, grown up Anna is *talking on top of it* and then the whole scene fades out after the first verse and Anna sings the third and final verse next to Sora. Then we spend another ten minutes gathering up Olaf, because he got split into pieces because of the Heartless.
Then we trek up the *entire mountain again*. Then we fight Marshmellow (the ice monster Elsa conjures up) only to end up falling down the mountain *again*. Then we set off to climb the mountain for a *third time* but mercifully we are interrupted by an awkward cutscene that sees Hans carrying off an unconcious Elsa. I have to mention that we have not seen Hans at all prior to this, and we don't have any interactions with him at all, actually we never even hear him speak, but he has a convenient aura of darkness so we can tell that he's a baddie nevertheless. We make our way to Arendel and see the final confrontation with Hans play out, then he sinks into a pool of darkness and we get dragged into it, then we have a fight against a giant wolf Heartless that can make a badass eclipse attack. It makes me think of Sköll from Norse mythology, who it is said will swallow the sun as part of Ragnarök.
Err... after our fight we get transported back, then Larxene puts us in a time-stop bubble of darkness (with her ***LIGHTNING*** powers presumably) to gloat that The Real Organization XIII already has gathered its 13th Seeker of Darkness.
This world is such a mess. Y'know, when I first got here I figured they could do something interesting with the Organization trying to tempt Elsa into becomming a Nobody or something, y'know since the central problem of the story is how her powers are influenced by her emotions and how she's constantly trying to keep her emotions under control. Wouldn't that be an obvious thing to do something with?!
Another thing that really threw me off is how amazed Sora is that Elsa can do ice magic when he first sees it. Like, not the ice palace thing, sure, feel free to be impressed with that, but just doing a burst of ice spikes? You know who else can do ice magic, Sora? *You!* And Donald! He doesn't remember Vexen of course, since the whole Chain of Memories thing is still forgotten to him, but I get the feeling it wouldn't've changed much.

Speaking of Vexen. I've been neglecting to mention some of the plotty-plot cutscenes that crop up between worlds every now and again. They give us some idea about what the Real Organization XIII is doing. Mostly they're just standing on top of very tall pillars in an area I'm guessing is The Badlands (the place where the Keyblade Graveyard is located). Turns out Vexen is back in the fold; can't say I'm terribly surprised. The Organization is going to use his replicas to fill out their ranks. Other returning members are Luxord and Demyx, who are apparently *part* of the Organization but not like... really part of it, in the sense that they're not numbered members or something? Like, they don't get to be turned into Xehanort clones I guess?
The cutscene where we see Luxord and Demyx again starts off with Larxene reminiscing with Marluxia about that time they tried to stage a coup to take over Organization XIII and then she *tries to talk him into it again*. They get interupted by Xemnas who shows up to tell them that it's time to reveal their connection to ancient keyblades or something like that. Basically, referencing their connection to Kingdom Hearts χ, though I didn't see Demyx or Luxord anywhere in there yet.

Err... I probably skipped over a bunch here and there, I didn't mention that the gummiships are back and the world map is sort of an open world but I don't think it matters too much and this update already ammounts to nearly 24000 characters.