A long overdue Kingdom Hearts III update!

a> I've written nearly all of this update *well* after having played through the base game of III (along with finishing all of Kingdom Hearts χ and Dark Road), but before starting the DLC. From what I've heard it changes some stuff pertaining to the ending of the game, so I want to document my feelings on the game such as it is before playing the DLC. Given my likes and dislikes, I don't expect my fundamental opinion to be swayed much one way or the other, though. Also, uhm, this is going to be a disgustingly long one, sorry!

I generally like to start these of with a little preamble of sorts, partially to set some expectations or give some context, but also because it really helps with getting started in terms of writing. This time I think the preamble is going to stay as a sort of meta introspection on the preamble itself, because I'll get ahead of myself if I start talking about my overall feelings on the game at this moment. Which in itself, uh, might already say more than I intended to say before the end.

Let's just start with some of the bits I didn't cover last time.
Remember Kairi? Yeah, she's in this game, but you wouldn't know from my last update. For the first twenty hours of my playthrough I believe she gets mentioned once to account for why she isn't around (she's training in the hyperbolic time chamber with Axel) and we get one cutscene where we see her taking a break and pining for Sora. I'm not joking about the hyperbolic time chamber thing by the way. I don't really know where they're supposed to be, Yen Sid says that Merlin has taken them to a place where time has no meaning, but when we see it it's just a forest. I mean, it *might* be 100 Acre Woods, but then I'd expect to meet them once we go inside the book!

I'd also like to talk a little about the Gummi stuff in this game, since it's been rather drastically changed in some ways. Instead of the paths between the different worlds being an on rails affair it's now split up in three large-ish 3D hubs that you can freely traverse. You unlock each hub after having completed all worlds in the preceding one.
You also get a more traditional gummi experience in the form of enemy encounters you can come across, which then locks your ship to a 2D plane like in the previous games.
So, there are some things I like about all of this, but unfortunately because the enemy encounters are locked in place they end up feeling very samey, since they can't put in any environmental obstacles. Also in terms of difficulty the whole thing is a step down from Kingdom Hearts II. Now arguably the gummi stuff in 2 was pretty hardcore if you were going for full completion and toning it down was justified, but I was barely thinking most of the time while grinding my way through it. For whatever reason I ended up actually 100%-ing the gummi content. In Kingdom Hearts II it was a daunting challenge I was unsure if I would even be able to do, something I felt accomplished about once it was done. In Kingdom Hearts III, outside of a few of the optional boss encounters, it was mostly busywork and once I'd unlocked the ultimate ship, downright trivial.
I, uh, think that's more than anyone wants to hear about the gummi ship stuff, so let's move on to actual ships.

Our journey to The Caribbean sees Sora and the gang briefly goofing around on a little boat before promptly going straight over the edge of the world and into Davy Jones's locker and meet Jack Sparrow, voiced by Absolutely Not Johnny Depp. We're then treated to a scene where Vexen and Luxord bicker for a bit. Vexen is very curious about how Davy Jones has managed to remove his heart without becoming a Nobody and really wants to check out that box of his. I'm actually just going to skip to the end of this little non-plot because it doesn't matter, but I was very amused by its conclusion. When the box finally gets opened Vexen is all like "Ugh, what, it's just an *actual* heart? This is useless to my research!". Yes, dude, this is what normal people mean when they talk about hearts! What the fuck were you expecting? Aren't you supposed to be the smart and observant one of the gang?? This is the kind of shit that happens when you set up really bizarre rules about what hearts are and then try to mesh that with an existing story that also involves hearts.
Honorary mention to the scene where Jack single-handedly defeats Luxord simply by breathing at him and making him fall overboard into a maelstrom because of how stinky he is. Really, really selling your baddies as a force to be reckoned with here.
The story of this world is really strange. We're... *sort of* doing the third Pirates movie, skipping right past the second one, and just given a *very* brief overview of what happened since we last visited. Much like the Tron world in Dream Drop Distance, if you've never seen the movie you are probably going to be pretty lost as to who the new people are and why you should care.
When I say we're sort of doing the third movie, that's because after we've reenacted the whole scene where they escape the locker, we soon get separated and do a completely separate "story" where we just fart around on a few islands with Jack Sparrow (who turns out to be a fake Jack Sparrow made out of crabs by Tia Dalma, so that we could hang out with him while the movie plot happens off screen) to justify the diving mechanics and the ship system they made *exclusively* for this world.
It's kind of weird that it took this long for Kingdom Hearts to properly implement diving in and out of water, since we had something like it all the way back in the first game, except you couldn't actually go up on land in Atlantica. It's a fine addition, I just don't quite understand why it's limited to the Caribbean, except perhaps that the worlds were to some extent developed independently of each other in teams, so the other teams couldn't as easily make use of systems made for other worlds. If the justification is that the worlds need to have a gimmick each, then that doesn't make sense either, because the world already has the ships! The ships are mechanically a little shallow, but very impressive from a technical standpoint, in that you can seamlessly switch between piloting it and going into normal runny-jumpy-slashy mode. I can only imagine the amount of time and effort it probably took to get this to work, and I think overall The Caribbean is the most impressive world in terms of technical feats, even if I deeply resent it for forcing me into a fetch quest of gathering 300 white crabs before it'd let me save the game again.

The next - and penultimate - world is San Fransokyo, or Big Hero 6, for those who've forgotten what movie that name was from. I, uh... gosh, I don't think I really have a lot to say about this one except I missed the chest with the map in this world, and since it's going for an open world feel, that left me terribly lost and running around looking for a save point for a really long time just trying to save the game so I could quit for the day. I think I recall seeing a headline about a streamer running into a similar problem back when the game originally came out??
From what I've heard as the series has gone on Disney has had more of a say about which worlds "have" to go into the games and have had stipulations about the degree to which characters are allowed to meddle with the stories. True or not, I can absolutely believe this and it would go a long way to explain why stuff like the Rapunzel and Frozen worlds are the way they are.
The story of this world takes place some time after the events of the movie, which makes the training section feel... dumb? since the characters are already supposed to know how to best apply their abilities and work as a unit. It also ends with undoing the sacrifice that the original Baymax unit did at the end of the movie by bringing it back and saving it so now there are just two Baymaxes. MORE ON THAT THEME LATER (SO MUCH MORE) 😵‍💫

So yeah, that brings us to the end of all the Disney worlds. This means that the plot can finally start. I mean that very seriously. You can cut nearly everything of III out from up until this point and it'd make very little change to the story being told. The only thing that was happening was just the Organization showing up and telling us about their wacky heart experiments or their back-up plan with the seven new princesses in case we don't wanna fight them (which, let's be honest, was that ever even *remotely* likely?). Sora still doesn't have the Power of Waking. You know, that thing he was told that he needed to get before he could even attempt to go in to the Dark Realm and look for Aqua. Well, nuts to that, he's going in anyway! And guess what, it works out! Because of course it does, the power was in his heart all along!! Gee, thanks Yen Sid!! Really holding true to that "Let your heart be your guiding key" adage there.

So, yeah, we go do what we should've done from the very start and go find Aqua, uh-oh, turns out Aqua's gone darkness-crazy so we have to beat some sense into her and fix her heart with a Care Bear Stare. Then, after 10 years, Aqua is finally free and... this is clearly supposed to be a hugely cathartic moment but it just feels completely bungled. They even try to reuse the "You're home" line from Kingdom Hearts II, y'know, the one moment in this whole dumb franchise that actually moved me to tears, and used here like that it just feels insulting. Fuck off.

Anyway, no time to dawdle, we're instantly off to Castle Oblivion and BOOM! Aqua just unlocks the castle back into Land of Departure, not even in the broken state we last saw it in, no no, in a pristine state. I guess Sora unwittingly fixed it back in Kingdom Hearts 1?? After a quick jaunt, we're face to face with sleepy-boy Ventus. Before we can give him the ol' wakey-wakey who should show up but Vanitas. We get to control Aqua (for the first and only time this entire game) as we beat him up just like old times, then Ventus wakes up just in time for the assist and Vanitas is forced to retreat.
I really think putting Aqua's rescue way earlier in the game would've been a huge benefit, because that way you could've had someone who actually knows what's going on give some direction, you know, make the first 80% of the game feel less aimless. Make it so that getting access to Castle Oblivion and freeing Ventus is the thing we're trying to accomplish. You can even make up some nonsense about Aqua loosing some of her powers or Keyblade and we need to reforge it or whatever and have that be the reason we can't go to Castle Oblivion yet.

I think this next bit actually comes before what I've just explained, but whatever. At some point Ansem (the Seeker of Darkness) went to the Dark Realm bopped Aqua into the extra spicy darkness, picked up Ansem (the Wise) and took him to Twilight Town. Vexen reveals himself to secretly (to everyone but himself) be a double agent when he assists Heyner, Pence and Olette in letting Ansem (the Wise) escape. Vexen says that he is doing this because he's committed to do anything he can to atone for his past actions. He also talks Demyx into smuggling an empty replica into Ienzo's lab because, uh, Demyx is pointless so no one would suspect him of actually doing anything, so there you have it, Demyx's sole contribution to the plot.
I don't see the point of having Vexen secretly being a good guy outside of trying to pull a fast one on the audience. The reasoning is that he needed to get a hold of his research to continue the replica program so that he could help get Roxas and Naminé new bodies, but like, in doing so he had to aid the Real Organization XIII with getting all of its members together. Even if we accept that he couldn't have rediscovered his results working alongside Ansem (the Wise) and Ienzo, wouldn't it have been more prudent to assist the good guys from the beginning with defeating the Organization and then simply recover his research *afterwards*?
Vexen's turn to good is so unprompted that it left me really confused for a little while if he was playing a trick on the good guys, but no, it's all in earnest. I'm not saying you can't have people defecting or stuff like that, hell, I think most everyone loves a good redemption story, but perhaps it would've actually felt earned or believable if there was any indication about what was going on here before it's sprung on the player.
I think my problem here is largely that this is a character that has been consistently portrayed as an unrepentantly arrogant shit-heel who cares about nothing but his research. Someone who was happy to give up his capacity for emotion because they were nothing but a distraction to him. Someone who would have been nearly indistinguishable from before and after loosing his heart. If you're going to have somebody like that suddenly grow a conscience I'm going to expect you to do a little more work up front than just "feel bad about it now, sry u guyz :(".
Uuurgh, why am I spending so much time talking about Vexen of all people. Let's move on, there's so much more to whine about!

My god, I cannot imagine what it must have been like to be playing this when it originally released and actually being hyped about getting to the conclusion of the Dark Seeker saga. Casually browsing around over the years I never really came across any discussion of III compared to the other games except some off-handed mention of disappointment. Sort of a "We don't talk about III" feeling. This vacuum was part of the reason I wanted to go through with this whole silly endeavor and figure out what happened.
Now, I'll try and step through most of what happens and probably get all worked up about some stuff here and there, but playing through this last part, yeah, I can see why you might not have a lot to say about it by the end. The rest of this summary is going to be excessively long and descriptive even by the standards I've built up so far, but I simply have to do it like this. It's either that or basically skipping to the credits. This is my final boss of Kingdom Hearts.

So, we've got our valiant defenders of light assembled: Sora, Riku, Kairi, Mickey, Aqua, Ventus and Axel. Donald and Goofy are there too.
For the sake of reference, let's go over who the Real Organization XIII is revealed to be comprised of so far: Master Xehanort, Ansem (the Seeker of Darkness), Xemnas, Terra-Xehanort, Young Xehanort, Vanitas, Dark Riku, Saïx, Xigbar, Marluxia, Larxenne and Luxord. Demyx and Vexen were there as reserves to fill out the ranks as needed, but they defected, so that leaves number XIII unknown.
We get a long series of cutscenes where we see how the good guys are spending their last day of rest before the big battle. We start off fairly sensibly with Aqua and Ventus, catching up on stuff. We also check in with Maleficent and Pete who have achieved literally nothing this entire game except going around and looking for that stupid box. Maleficent concludes that the box literally doesn't exist yet because the Keyblade War hasn't happened yet and checks out for the rest of the game. Ugh, why even have them in the game if you're not going to progress their goals or stories at all??
Next up is Axel sulking on the Twilight Town clock tower with ice cream when Saïx shows up to cram in some recontextualization for our benefit as to why they were trying to sneak into Ansem (the Wise)'s lab back in Birth By Sleep and why they joined his team of scientists and eventually became part of (the original) Organization XIII. You see, it's because they found a girl in the castle dungeon and wanted to rescue her and following Xehanort was the only way to do that apparently, and that's why Axel helped Saïx raise in the ranks by murdering Vexen back in Chain of Memories.
Oh, but it didn't actually accomplish anything because Saïx couldn't find any trace of her. Wow, I sure am glad we added another mystery box to our narrative, it really gives such richness to these characters knowing that they were looking for someone they don't know anything about and still don't and don't have any way of finding out. Ugh, if I were to guess, it's probably one of the Kingdom Hearts χ characters (there are a number of "missing" people from χ, but I suppose I'll pin my guess on Skuld just to commit to something and claim theory swag if I turn out to be correct).

Okay, next we've got Riku on the beach at the Destiny Islands. Turns out he had Replica Riku in his heart ever since visiting the Dark Realm and now they're having a chat. Okay?? I guess his redemption at the end of Chain of Memories wasn't enough, we needed to bring him back again??
Not too far away from this are Sora and Kairi who finally get to share a proper god damn scene. It's sweet, they share the paopu fruit.
The next day the good guys go to the Keyblade Graveyard, the baddies show up and talk shit, then we have a big scuffle with a heap of Heartless and Nobodies and Unversed in the style of the 1000 Heartless battle from Kingdom Hearts II. There isn't much of a lead up to this, it just kind of starts and once we've done enough punching, it all just kind of goes away again. Then we go a short ways through a tunnel and have a long cutscene with Terra-Xehanort. He handily beats up everyone and is only stopped when Donald uses Zettaflare, a catastrophically powerful spell that I'm given to understand has the capacity to literally end worlds.
When... did Donald learn this spell? How did he learn it? He's never done anything like this before! I sort of knew about this moment from a few memes, but because of those I was actually under the impression that Donald straight up died from the effort, but nah, he's just tuckered out like most of the rest of the gang.
Everyone except Sora and Riku *does* get wiped out by the colossal Heartless tornado that shows up shortly after, though. R.I.P.
Sora does the big dramatic scream of despair and laments that everyone is gone forever. My guy, Sora, did you forget what franchise we're in? The last few games have been all about bringing back people who by rights should be gone. Aqua, Ventus, Ansem (the Wise), *literally everyone from Organization XIII* **AND THE REAL ONE!** I have been systematically conditioned by these games to expect no sacrifice, victory or loss to ultimately matter. Everyone always just comes back again one way or another.
Sora loosing heart and despairing is a good idea for a dramatic moment, it *could* be a really powerful and memorable moment, but, ugh, again, in the context of what's leading up to it and how it's presented here, I'm going to have to say it's another miss for me.
Riku does his brave boy final stand but gets obliterated and then Sora follows. Darkness wins, the end.

Of course, this isn't actually the end and Sora instead wakes up in limbo, or the Final World, (same place where the tutorial took place) where a Chirithy from Kingdom Hearts χ shows up to exposit that yeah, he's dead, but apparently Kairi is somehow keeping him from disappearing entirely. You then run around in a tech demo area with a gravity shift gimmick for a few minutes and collect clones of Sora to, uh, put him back together. Oh yeah, and he talks to a bunch of hearts too, such as Naminé's who got separated from Kairi once they got blowed up. She apparently was able to speak with Terra's heart in the meantime and says she's going to try and... somehow... get in touch with Lingering Will? Sora thanks her for it, but specifically mentions that this isn't the thanks that he owes her from Chain of Memories. Why not? Are they saving it for the DLC??
Then we go through a rather protracted sequence where we revisit a scene from every other world we've been to so far and defeat the same boss enemy each time to get a heart back for every one of our friends so we can bring everyone back to life. Also to travel back in time before the scene with Terra-Xehanort. Apparently Sora is doing all of this with the Power of Waking. Uh, Young Xehanort shows up to cryptically hint at some karmic punishment for using the Power of Waking in this way.
Anyway, now we have a do-over of the Terra-Xehanort scene and I guess whatever Naminé did worked out because Lingering Will shows up and goes to town on his original body. I, uh, am not at all clear on how this works out... like, *when* and *where* is Naminé's heart right now? Is it still in the Final World or did it swoop back into Kairi again? Did it go back in time with the rest of the group? Does the Final World follow the same rules (or suggestions) of time as the rest of this universe? How does a heart commune with an empty suit of armour inhabited only by the determination of its former owner?
Lingering Will is motivated solely by getting revenge on Xehanort, so you'll excuse me if I find it strange that it wouldn't pick up on there being literally 6½ of the dude in its neighbourhood!!

If you couldn't tell we're at the point of the game where things just sort of happen; we're in the realm of spectacle, pathos and contrivance, which is of courses this series' bread and butter, but damnit, I swear there used to be a bit more filling to this sandwich.

While Lingering Will and Terra-Xehanort fight, the big Heartless tornado starts forming up again. Sora puts on his big boy pants and dives face first into danger. When he leaps at the core of the tornado, suddenly there's a burst of white light and SURPRISE EVERYONE, IT'S TIME FOR KINGDOM HEARTS Χ!! Ephemer appears in a vision before Sora and asks if he needs a hand. Then all of the keyblades in the Keyblade Graveyard start flying off to form a huge snake like we saw Vanitas do it in Birth By Sleep. Then a huge list of reaction commands show up and all of them are the names of real player characters from the mobile game, also listing their associated union. How fucking lost is anyone who didn't really know about the mobile game at this point? Anyway, now the game becomes Galaga for a little bit: you dodge lumps of Heartless, mash triangle and shoot out a frankly grotesque amount of keyblades at the tornado until it finally explodes and then all the keyblades explode and everyone is confused.
I'm a little surprised by how much I liked this moment, though a lot of that might just have been from how suddenly this all happens and imagining someone going directly from Birth By Sleep (or even Kingdom Hearts II) to this. Mostly I just find that using the player names was a really sweet detail.

Alas, the show must go on, now Dark Riku shows up, talks shit, muses about how great it was to be possessed by Ansem (the Seeker of Darkness) that one time and then summons another boatload of Heartless before disappearing again. Our heroes begin to despair but it seems Yen Sid, in a very out of character move, has deigned to actually do something. He appears in a burst of light and does his Moses act, parting the sea of darkness with a barrier of light for all the keyblade wielders to finally get to the actual battle against the Xehanorts and company while Donald and Goofy stay behind with Yen Sid. In the next scene Master Xehanort summons a labyrinth out of the earth and we can finally begin the "Keyblade War" in earnest. More of a skirmish than a war, I'd say, but whatever, let's try and get this over with.

This next portion of the game is a series of group fights against the members of the Organization. You get a little bit of choice as to the order you go in, so I'll just go with the order I did it. The general formula is the same, to the point of numbness, you beat a boss and they have a cutscene where they pretend to have had an arc and then disappear in some way or another. Every time someone is defeated it completes another bit of the χ-blade.

Fight #1: Sora and Mickey vs. Marluxia, Luxord and Larxene:
Xemnas is here for a little bit, but he super-charges Luxord and then teleports out.
Luxord gets defeated and says Sora was born for these games, throws us a wildcard and then fades away, off to be recompleted *again*.
Larxene gets defeated and says she was just in this for the ride with Marluxia and then fades away, off to be recompleted *again*.
Marluxia gets defeated and suddenly begins to remember who he was and says thanks before fading away, off to be recompleted *again*.
Y'know, back in Chain of Memories and Kingdom Hearts II beating these guys had slightly more impact when the explanation was that Nobodies disappeared forever when they died, even if a lot of them were really shallow characters. But now we know they'll just come back as humans, so who cares. Once you find out that you're strong-willed enough to become a Nobody that retains its sense of self, you've effectively transcended death, since you can just go and loose your heart again every time you get recompleted! And heck, you can even grow back your heart again as a bonus if feeling nothing makes you sad!

Fight #2: Sora and Riku vs. Dark Riku and Xigbar:
Ansem (the Seeker of Darkness) is here for a little bit but teleports out.
Xigbar gets defeated and says that he only put up with Xehanort because he was promised to be bequeathed his keyblade. Then he conveniently teleports to the top of a wall so that we can't see what happens to him after he tumbles back over it. HMMM!
Dark Riku gets defeated and it's revealed that he's actually Replica Riku, then the other Replica Riku, the one inside of Riku, pops out and yanks the bad replica out of its replica body and both replica souls(??) die, leaving an empty vessel for Naminé to get inserted into once this is all over.
What... what an incredibly pointless twist. It's not like Xehanort couldn't have just gotten the possessed version of Riku if he wanted to, his heart's in both of them, so why pretend???

Fight #3: Sora, Aqua and Ventus vs. Vanitas and Terra-Xehanort:
Oh god. I'm going to have to talk about this shit...
OKAY! So, Vanitas gets defeated and his helmet explodes and Sora finally sees that they look the same. Vanitas then says that the reason for that is that Sora filled in the bit of Ventus that Vanitas took out of him. And that somehow retroactively made him look like Sora. What? I mean, sure, there's no way they'd ever make up an explanation for this I'd actually like, but... huh??
Now for the real nonsense: Vanitas goes on a rant that's basically about how he *needs* to be the dark side of Sora and Ventus so that they can be the good. But he's also saying that it was a choice. So he chose to be evil because some one had to be evil for the others to be able to choose to be good??? What the fuck are you talking about?? Opt-in deterministic morally absolute relativism?!?
Vanitas fades away and, uh, I guess he goes back to his own time? Ventus gives up trying to argue and just says "Okay". Personally I haven't quite made it to "Acceptance" yet, so I'll stick with "Anger" for the next little while.
Terra-Xehanort gets defeated but not really. He ties everyone up in darkness chains and is about to finish off Aqua and Ventus, but I guess that's just the motivation Terra's Heartless needed to finally take back its body. And so it does, and Terra is recompleted.

Fight #4: Sora and... uhm...
Okay, the format doesn't quite work for this one. It *looks like* it's going to be Sora, Kairi and Axel vs. Saïx and SMALL FEMININE HOODED PERSON WITH A KEYBLADE, HMM, WHO COULD IT BE, buuuut Xemnas shows up in a cutscene and beats up Axel with lasers. Also, we can't actually have Kairi do anything *on screen*, so Xemnas kidnaps her and teleports out again. During the cutscene the mystery person is obviously revealed to be Xion, though it's very clearly her already in the cutscene where Xehanort summons the labyrinth to begin with.
Uuuugghhh... so... I've historically had *opinions* on Xion and her role in the overall narrative of this series. I always believed that her role was done by the end of 358/2 Days, she returned to Sora's heart and when Roxas returned to Sora as well, they were, for all intents and purposes, together again. There's a satisfying melancholy to that I think.
Now, by Dream Drop Distance or even Coded, it became clear that the franchise really wanted to let the Nobodies get to have a happier end and be real people. I had it written out in my head, I knew pretty much how they were probably going to do it and bring these characters back. They're all tied up with Sora, so obviously he'd have to sacrifice himself somehow by the end and in releasing his heart like in Kingdom Hearts 1 when he releases Kairi he'd go off into some kind of otherworld limbo place and that'd be how we keep the franchise going. That's the price Sora needed to pay to save everyone. I didn't like it at all, but I just knew that's where things were headed.
But no. No this is not what we do to justify getting Xion back. What do we do? Well... nothing. She's just here now. Brought in from the past like the other clowns?? How?? Nobody remembers her!!! Why in the world would the Real Organization XIII even want her specifically?!? The only reason they wanted her in Days was to collect hearts to complete Kingdom Hearts, but apparently we've since decided that *that* was an off-brand Kingdom Hearts that's not as good as the one we're trying to make by making twenty or so people punch each other. So actually, what *was* the point of trying to duplicate Sora back in Days given everything we know now? Just making better replicas???
This is so much worse than what I was picturing. God damnit. You didn't even try to justify it.
Uh... oh yeah, Roxas shows up, he's a real boy now too.
Then we beat up Saïx and he admits that he just got pissy and did all of this because Axel was making new friends and he fades away, off to be recompleted *again*.

By the end of fights 3 and 4 we've reunited a trio of friends who've long been separated and fans should be very happy to see them be able to be together. But... it really feels like the game has *no* idea about what to do with them the instant we've gotten them assembled. It's like it's furiously checking off its checkboxes and rushing off to the next disjointed set piece because this game has been in development for over ten years and we don't actually know how to fit all of this crap together and at some point you just have to call it done even if it sucks.

Fight #5: Sora, Riku and Mickey vs. Ansem, Xemnas and Young Xehanort:
Young Xehanort is defeated and then laughs about Sora's time in this world being over as he fades away and goes back to his own time.
Xemnas is defeated and has a big mope about feeling sad and then fades away and goes back to his own time.
Ansem is defeated and we reminisce about all the good times we've had over the years trying to kill each other. He admits that he knew he couldn't win but didn't care because "the others" (Demyx and Vexen??) betrayed him. He says that it's time to move on and urges us to seek whatever is out there and then fades away and goes back to his own time. The speech itself is pretty good, but given Ansem's many appearances throughout the games and how consistently pathologically malevolent he's been in every single one of them, I unfortunately can't give it a pass.

And there we go. We've just completely steamrolled the entire Organization except Master Xehanort with not a single casualty on our end except the ghost of a clone who wasn't even really part of our team. It feels so incredibly disconnected from how much we were apparently struggling against just Terra-Xehanort at the beginning of this. Well, I guess that's about to change, because to get the final bit of the χ-blade Master Xehanort decides to off Kairi.
*sigh*
What the fuck.
You couldn't even let her go out fighting, huh.

Sooo, yeah, Xehanort completes the χ-blade and "opens up" Kingdom Hearts to make the "world to come" appear. Riku and Mickey have an idea, though, since they learned that "he can transcend space and time" and that "he's a portal, and we can use that to trap him". Uh-huh... sure. Xion chimes in to say that she can feel that Kairi is totally going to recover from being dead. Just in case anyone was gullible enough to think that they'd actually going to stick with it, I guess. Or is it to acknowledge that they know that we don't believe them? Whatever. Everyone shoots at Kingdom Hearts with their keyblades to "keep it closed", except Sora who shoots Xehanort to make one of those spiky portals from Dream Drop Distance appear and he travels into it along with Donald and Goofy, the screen fades to white and then...

Uh... I need to backtrack a little here because I don't think I've given a single mention to the flashbacks we've been getting of Even Younger Xehanort and Approximately Just As Young Eraqus throughout the game. The reason I haven't mentioned them is that they don't really contribute anything except to make this place that we get sent to at all recognizable to the player. It's where they both studied to become keyblade wielders back in the day and uhm, they played a whole lot of fake chess. I mean, okay, I can tell that the moves that they're making and the flow of the match they're playing largely correspond to how the keyblade war is progressing, but so what?
This world is called Scala ad Caelum, or translated from Latin: *Stairway to Heaven*, and it is apparently "the nexus from which all other worlds spring". Okay? Sounds like it could've been a pretty neat hub for this game, shame it doesn't serve any purpose except having a final boss fight. I swear, this place reeks of very nearly cut content. On that note I'd like to lament not going to Radiant Garden outside of cutscenes - you could help Kairi try and explore her past, y'know! But with the extra effort that goes into making bustling cities I can understand why that got cut. I wonder if this is somehow connected with the complete absence of any Final Fantasy characters except Moogles in this game? (The Toy Story stuff doesn't count, Verum Rex doubly so!)

But yeah, here's how we start out the final stretch of boss fights. Sora, Donald and Goofy walk into the town and see multiple Master Xehanorts walking about who then morph into thirteen identical evil cultists in high heels. For one brief naive moment I thought the game would actually introduce a new villain character, just one little one, but no, they're just Xehanort replicas each wielding one of the weapons of the original Organization XIII members.
Uhm... yeah, so... I was actually wondering why Xehanort didn't just make however many identical copies he needed of himself instead of specifically plucking various incarnations from throughout the years. Just pick the point on your timeline where you were at your most powerful and then grab twelve copies separated by one minute each, right? But I guess he actually did do that, except these are apparently the earlier crappier replicas. But then again, Xehanort didn't need to win the Keyblade War he just wanted it to happen at all so he could get to Kingdom Hearts, so either way it doesn't make sense for him to really bother doing the whole Organization thing if he could just do this.
Once we beat the replicas they all merge with the original Master Xehanort and he becomes a goat man. Or, well, he grows goat armour. Then he makes the town fold in on itself like it's Inception and flips gravity and we fight. Punch, punch, punch. Then he flips gravity again and we fight in the water. Punch, punch, punch. Then he teleports out of the water and Sora jumps unto land again, except now the town is in ruins and there's a really strong updraft so we fight in the air now. Punch, punch, punch.
Then Xehanort's goat armour explodes and he does a smirk before teleporting away. Sora intuits that he's gone to the top of the big central tower and dashes off after him, leaving Donald and Goofy behind while he flies heroically at the camera - CUT TO - Sora, Donald and Goofy walk leisurely across the open area at the top of the tower to confront Master Xehanort.
Uhh... something was clearly cut or changed between those two cutscenes!
Anyway, I guess our plan was that Xehanort couldn't use the χ-blade here for some reason, but he goes "D'uh, it's all connected, dummy!" and summons it, along with Kingdom Hearts.
Oh no! Surely we are doomed, his plans have come to fruition! Whatever will we do? We beat him over the head with a key. Same as we've always done. This fight has precisely one neat thing about it and that's when Xehanort begins to use the power of light against Sora. It's twenty years later and for all the plotting and planning and diversions, twists and misdirections it still just comes down to pummeling a guy with a blunt object. Punch, punch, punch. Oh, and friendship. There's a fake-out at the end of the fight where Xehanort one-shots Sora with a death beam and the game does a fake Game Over screen, but Donald and Goofy's cries bring Sora back and together they push the death beam back and deflect it back into Xehanort.

And that's it. Gameplay has concluded.

Xehanort does a little speech about how he's actually doing all of this to reset the world because people suck and keep making darkness happen and he should totally be in charge of everything because he'd make it better. Great. Gotta squeeze in one last change of Xehanort's motivation before the end, huh. I find the "people need a strong leader" justification extremely shallow and tired, so I can't really say it's an improvement over Birth By Sleep's "Hmm! I wonder if the apocalypse would be different if we did it again.", which I at least found funny.
Everyone else shows up by... "following their hearts" and teleporting through Kingdom Hearts. Master Eraqus's heart pops out of Terra and he manifests as a shiny golden ghost, because there are only a handful of characters we haven't brought back yet and this game is aiming for the full set, baby!
Was Eraqus's heart inside of Terra-Xehanort all this time or was his heart inside of Terra's Heart inside of the Heartless guardian thing??
Eraqus convinces Xehanort to finally give up and hand the χ-blade to Sora.
Then Eraqus apologizes to Aqua and Ventus for his dubious decision-making in Birth By Sleep and asks Terra to look after them for him. It's supposed to represent Eraqus finally telling Terra that he is indeed worthy and giving him the approval he's wanted all this time, but, c'mon, you need to apologize to him too! Bad surrogate parent, bad!
Then Xehanort starts dying, Eraqus helps him from falling over and they both turn into their child selves before turning into hearts and flying up into the heavens in a burst of golden light.
Uh... if we're supposed to take from all of this that Xehanort wasn't all that bad of a guy I think the game is being willfully amnesiac about the character we're dealing with here. I don't care how many details you change or how many additional scenes you clumsily add between previously established moments. There are simply too many unconscionable acts on display and the only extent to which you'll ever be able to make me feel pity for this guy is the degree to which he wasted his efforts and talents.
I scrolled past a YouTube video in my feed some days ago titled "Kingdom Hearts 3 Was A Waste of Effort", I haven't watched it, but that title has lived in my head ever since because I can't think of a better, briefer summary for this entire debacle.
Sora uses the χ-blade to close Kingdom Hearts and stop it from doing whatever it was going to do. Then we cut to the entire group in the Keyblade Graveyard where Mickey announces that it's all over. Sora says no, because he still needs to go get Kairi back. Mickey warns that he might not be able to come back, but Sora's like, nah, we'll both be back before ya know it and opens a portal with his Keyblade. Throughout this entire scene Mickey's mouth is like frozen in a smile even when his eyes go sad and it looks SO DAMN WEIRD, was this a glitch in the animation rig that nobody caught before the final render or something??

THEN CREDITS ROLL.

We're 40,000 characters in, people, we are *so very* nearly done, I swear, but not quite yet.
We get a montage showing everyone getting back home. The Disney people go to Disney castle of course. Terra, Aqua and Ventus return to the Land of Departure and pay their respects to Eraqus and afterwards the Chirithy we saw in the Final World shows up to hug Ventus, so I guess it was his. Hey, remember how it was revealed in Kingdom Hearts χ that Ventus originally came from that long-gone era? Wow, that sure didn't end up meaning much of anything in this game, huh!
Next we see Roxas, Axel and Xion hang out in Twilight Town and then Saïx shows up looking like a COMPLETE BUFFOON in his new duds, then Heyner, Pence and Olette also drop by and everyone is of course eating ice cream.
In Radiant Garden Ansem (the Wise) and company are putting the finishing touches on jamming Naminé into a replica and then Riku shows up in a gummi ship to take her to...
A beach party on the Destiny Islands! Everyone is here now goofing around, throwing frisbees, making snowmen out of sand (????), running around, etc. Saïx continues to look like an utter clown, good on him. Then everyone gathers to look out at the small island off the coast where Sora and Kairi are sitting looking at the sunset and holding hands. So, uh, I guess Sora just went and fetched Kairi off screen. And then he sort of blurs out of existence. His punishment for doing the Power of Waking thing I guess? See you in Kingdom Hearts 4, Sora! 👋
My first time viewing the scene I wasn't even clear if Sora and Kairi where actually physically there and the others were just having a really tonally awkward beach party in their honour.

After the credits we're once more back in at the Keyblade Graveyard where it's revealed that Xigbar is still alive, and that he was actually Luxu this whole time with a different face and now the Foretellers are coming back because that was like the one thing we hadn't brought back yet. The box is there and we see Maleficent and Pete standing some distance away, observing.

The final scene of the normal ending is a flashback to Scala ad Caelum with Even Younger Xehanort and Approximately Just As Young Eraqus again, about to start up a new game of fake chess to serve as a sequel tease, even though the previous scene already does that. I guess they just really wanted to do the wordplay.
The secret ending is, uhm... Sora wakes up in photo-realistic Shibuya, Tokyo and walks around for a little bit. Riku is here too but somewhere else. Yozora from the in-game Toy Story commercial is also here, sitting on top of a skyscraper and brooding. And then, at the very last, we've got the Master of Masters standing on top of another skyscraper doing a heart shape with his hands superimposed over the moon.
Uh, okay. I'm not really sure if I'm supposed to be hyped about Sora in the real world. The concept just seems redundant when Sora's already been to a big metropolitan area because of the Big Hero 6 world. It all puts me in mind of the ending to Chrono Cross and, uh, I don't know if anything should ever aspire to be compared to *that* ending.

Remember how this was supposed to be the ending of the Dark Seeker Saga? Err... yeah, I don't think I'd call this a satisfying conclusion by any metric. It only satisfies the appellation by virtue of finally offing Xehanort, everything else is just... jumbled together and eventually just... stops. I don't trust that this franchise is ever going to reach as much of a sense of closure as it did by Kingdom Hearts II. I think Re Mind is going to have a *very hard* time winning me over. And now, much as Kingdom Hearts III, I am simply going to stop this summary now. Thank you all for reading 💜

**THE END!!!**