a> I started this series of playthroughs back in April 2022 with Kingdom Hearts 1, though most updates I provided on the games preceeding Birth by Sleep are too short or fragmentary for inclusion in this format. This was in large part due to my already having played those games and therefore having somewhat fewer thoughts to share or things I needed to process.

It's that time again whether you want it or not, it's a Kingdom Hearts update!
I started *Birth by Sleep* a little while ago, but wasn't sure how to do these updates for a game I hadn't actually played before, so for now I delayed it until I was done with the first of the three chapters. So there are probably some things I don't have the full picture of yet and some things that I've forgotten a little already, but anyway, let's get into it.
Oh gods, this is going to be a rambly one I fear...

It seems like every side story for Kingdom Hearts needs to have a really bizarre system for handling special moves. For *Chain of Memories* it was the whole card thing, in *358/2 Days* you had the Resident Evil-style inventory; now we have the Command Deck and my immediate feelings were very anxious indeed! It feels very poorly tutorialized, simply dumping a big box of text on you whenever you press start or navigate to a sub-menu, dumping way too much on you at once before you have enough familiarity and context to understand each part.
Special moves, items and spells are all considered equal and come in the shape of what the game calls Commands and they can be individually equipped in your Command Deck. You are allowed to have 3 Commands from the beginning of the game but gradually unlock more slots as you progress through the worlds; I think it ends at around 9 slots.
Oh, you also have a separate deck for managing movement options like dashing and blocking and even jumping! It doesn't come into play as often, but there are different types of blocking and dashing and some of them can be chained. Your jump can also be replaced with High Jump later on which you can then level for higher jumps.
Oh! I completely forgot to mention that basically every Command can be leveled! Yeah, so, you equip Commands to your deck(s) and go fight and gain expereince, which then goes both to your character level and the equipped Commands. They seem to have a max level of somewhere between 3 and 5. Uh... oh! While we're talking about this I need to mention that you don't get Abillities from leveling up in this game, you only get increases to HP, defense, strength and magic power.

The way you get Abillities in this game is by "Melding Commands", in which you take some of the Commands you've got and combine them, losing them in the process, to get a new (and better?) Command. Additionally you can then add a "shard" to the Command you're about to make. These are found in chests or drop randomly from enemies and come in 6 or so different types. Oh, did I mention you have to level up the Commands before you can use them for Melding? Well, you have to level them up first.
So, you add one of these shards to your Command and you get *some* abillity. You don't know ahead of time which one unless you've done this combination before, so it's really just a gamble. Once you've melded this new Command you can equip it and its associated Abillity will automatically get equipped along with it. Once the Command has reached max level the Abillity is freely equipable independantly of the Command.

Uh... there's a whole bunch more: there's the Shotlock Command, Finisher Commands and even Command Styles, but I'll be here all day if I had to explain all that. Most of all I just wanted to give some idea of how much *stuff* the game dumps on you and how intimidating that is. I haven't even talked about D-Linking yet! I'll get to that in a moment.
I think it would really benefit the game to give you *some* Commands from time to time that just happened to have Abillities on them so you don't have to Meld for everything. I ended up barely using the system, only melding, uh... 2 HP increasing Abillities, 1 Air Combo Plus and 1 increased item drop. I guess this might have been a part of why I felt sort of underpowered throughout the game, but generally it also just seems to be a harder game than KH2, making you much more squishy. I can appreciate that after facerolling through most of KH2, only having to *really pay attention* when doing the optional bosses, but even so, there were difficulty spikes within this game where I really had to understand some the mechanics to progress.

Anyway, D-Linking! I'll freely admit that I had a giggle pretty much every time the game told me Terra had formed a D-Link with some other character.
It's more or less this game's version of summoning, in which your character invokes another character, which changes their Command Deck temporarily and gives them a unique finisher. It also gives you a free full heal whenever you activate it. Like everything else D-Links also need to be leveled and when you reach level 3 with it, you unlock a more powerful version of it. So far I've mostly just used Maleficent and Cinderella, the former because you get to shoot green dragon fire and the latter because it gives you a heal Command.
I wanted to get all these mechanics things out of the way before talking about the story because I'll be completely incoherent if I have to talk about both at once. I'll say a little about my impressions so far, but I'll keep it brief since this update is running really long.
The worlds largely felt very brisk, in a few cases almost comically so, Yen Sid's tower consists of literally one room and a cutscene. Destiny Islands is *literally* just a cutscene, and you can never revisit it, but it still gets put on the map. The way I'm understanding this game, you visit every world three times, so making them short is probably best. The Disney stuff feels very sidelined for a lot of the game and gives more focus to the main story, fragmented as it is. In a lot of ways this game has a very different *feel* compared to previous entries, part of that are the mechanics and the new cast of characeters but there's also just something about it I can't entirely put into words. Maybe I'll have it figured out by the end of the playthrough! Let's talk about Terra for now.

Terra is... kind of a dummy. Well-meaning sure, but also seemingly pathologically incapable of making a single good decision. I know it's meant to be the tragedy of his character that circumstance and misunderstandings lead things to where they go, but a lot of it is also really funny and baffling. I enjoyed his bumbling antics immensely.
I feel like I ought to say more on a world by world basis, but I can't, mostly I just want to talk about the waking nightmare that is Disney Town and the racing minigame and how thrashing Huey, Dewy and Louie in a kart race made him see that the light wasn't lost to him yet. KART RACING SAVED TERRA'S SOUL.
I'm so confused about why Scrooge is in Radiant Gardens and not in Disney Town when traveling between worlds is supposed to be basically impossible unless you're a keyblade wielder. This is before gummi ships!
Like... Scrooge and Donald are related, and they're also related to Huey, Dewy and Louie. Why aren't they all in the same world? Did Mickey help him get there? Why? To sell ice cream? To collected data on skateboards??
Oh! I haven't talked about the Unversed yet. They're kind of like proto-Heartless, where instead of being born out of the darkness in people's heart they're... uh, born out of their negative emotions, which is somehow different. I don't know. Before going into this game I knew very little about them except their name, and I still don't feel all that enlightened on the matter. It might very well be because there simply isn't more to it, or maybe that's just not something Terra's part of the story really goes into. It just feels like... these guys are a really lazy excuse to have enemies in the game. Like... if they were just called Heartless I probably wouldn't think twice about it. There has to be a reason why we're introducing this concept in the prequel to all the other games, right??
Also why is Zack Fair in Olympus Colosseum? Like, thematically I know it makes sense to put Cloud's predecessor in the prequel in the same area we met Cloud first, but again, how did he even get here? There's also the Lilo & Stitch world (sans Lilo) that takes place on the spaceship. The spaceship that ostensibly travels between worlds, even though it isn't really supposed to be possible? Or is the universe they're traveling its own self-contained world such as Kingdom Hearts understands the term??
(Oh my goood, I had no idea I'd written that much 🙈)

a> I originally deliberately left out any mention of Command Board for the sake of keeping the rant somewhat on track, but ended up writing the following addendum about four hours afterwards anyway.

Kingdom Hearts update addendum!!
I need to talk about the board game. I don't want to talk about the board game, but the people have a right to know.
One of the worlds you unlock relatively early on is an arena type area. It isn't based on any existing Disney property, so I thought they made it like that because they didn't want to integrate Olympus Colosseum into the story or try to figure out how to make the Unversed fit into the tournament structure like in previous games (not that they had much of an explanation there either). But Olympus Colosseum *is* in the game, and we *do* go there for a tournament and we *do* fight Unversed, so I really have no real idea as to why Mirage Arena exists. My best guess is that it gave them a carte blanche to add other assorted minigames into the area without having to make it fit the Hercules aesthetic.
So, one of these minigames is a thing called Command Board.
It's like some kind of hybrid of Monopoly and Mario Party but without the minigames. When you naïvely begin your first game of Command Board your senses are assaulted by a deluge of information that makes no sense to you, because you don't know what any of it means yet and you just kind of stumble your way through it, picking up the rules from guesswork and intuition. It's like being thrust into a JoJo's style stand battle.

The game as best I could understand, from the one round I played (and somehow won) goes something like this:
To play Command Board you first pick a board you want to play on, they're each composed of squares and make out little pixel arts, like, the first board is shaped like a key, the Cinderella board is shaped like a glass slipper. Anyway, all players start on the same square and you take it in turns to roll a dice to see how far you move, letting you pick the direction you move whenever you reach an intersection. If you land on a regular square you can purchase that square by spending one of the cards in your Command Deck. Yes, you somehow put down your special moves or spells unto the board to claim that square and I think the level or strength of the Command might factor into how strong the square becomes.
The reason you want to do this is that when another player lands on your square it drains a number of GP from them and gives it to you. GP is the currency of Command Board and you need to acrue enough of it to satisfy the win condition. Oh, but it's not enough to simply get GP, see, there's the GP you have on your person and then there's the GP you have in the bank. And that's the part that matters for winning. You bank your GP by returning to the starting square. Oh! And you can spend GP to upgrade your squares to make opposing players lose more GP when they land on it. To do that you either need to land on a square you own to upgrade that specific one, or you can land on one of the special squares that allow you to pick one yourself. Oh! I forgot! The Commands in your deck aren't just used for buying squares, they also each have a special abillity like forcing a player to skip a turn or letting you pick your initial direction of movement. There's plenty more nitty-gritty details in here that I forget or don't understand well enough to explain, but it's madness and I don't know who this minigame is for!
If you want 100% journal completion you have to win 7 games of this.
I think I explained the board game?? It's like I go into a fugue state whenever I have to talk about it.

Holy crap! How did I not mention that the Keyblades turn into interstellar motorcycles in this game!!