Ding-ding-ding! Kingdom Hearts update:
I mentioned that I finished Ventus's story about two days ago and I started up Aqua's story yesterday so it seems a fine point to share some more thoughts.
The last half of Ven's arc feels a little aimless, which is possibly a product of having to make sure every character visits every world, which sometimes leaves one or two of them without much to do. Overall Ventus's visits have felt much more like how things were in KH2, which may be intentional because he is the very obvious Sora equivalent of the trio, I mean, he even gets to meet Donal and Goofy and D-Link with them.
For the first half of the story he's trying to find Terra because he got tricked into thinking that Terra is going to leave him behind. After they all three meet up in Radiant Garden and have a falling out with eachother he spents the rest of the game basically just going about trying to make friends, which does have some fine character moments, but really does feel like filler.

As I had hoped Ven's story gives a *little* more context to the Unversed but I've just accepted that it's never going to feel "right" to me. At one point in a flashback we see Ventus attempt to fight a bunch of Heartless that Xehanort seems to have summoned or just stumbled on, so they definitely do exist at this point in time, we just never see them! 
Much like Gandalf, Aqua seems to be the only of the group trying to actually do what she was asked to do, so I can't entirely sympathize with Terra when he gives her crap for following orders and keeping an eye on him - especially when he was used by Maleficent to steal Aurora's heart against his own will in the very first world he visits!!
Then when Aqua is trying to placate Terra by saying that she really does believe in him Ventus goes "Aqua you're awful, you've let becoming a Keyblade Master go to your head", and I can only rationalize this as Ventus being angry with Aqua because she made his best friend feel bad. Like, him going "Were you also *ordered* to take me back home?" doesn't really feel like a fair accusation because she never forces him, she's actually being very lenient all things considered. 

Anyway, let's talk about Aqua's story so far: It's been a pretty fun time. Things start out strong in Cinderella's world with the Fairy Godmother saying that fighting the dark with light is a dangerous/bad idea (???), after which we proceed to do the same thing as we have for the past 100+ hours by slapping them around with our Keyblade. I guess we don't actually kill the wicked stepmother and her daughters and that's the difference?? Instead we just let them blow themselves up with an explosive pumpkin dropped by that evil pumpkin carriage they summoned out of enviousness. The hell of it is that we have another chat with the Fairy Godmother afters talking about what we learned today and how there are other ways to defeat the dark.
At this point I'm losing my mind because presumably the point they're trying to make here is that *love* and/or *friendship* is what won the day, and I guess we're somehow pretending that this isn't what the light is all about while also explicitly saying that the bad thoughts are associated with darkness. What exactly are you on about, madam??
At least one thing seems a little clearer to me now, which is how Ventus got shrunk. I have to assume that the Fairy Godmother did it because she does the same thing to Aqua, albeit with her consent. A final note about the Cinderella world: Aqua almost getting to try on the glass slipper was a really cute moment, I just wish she'd actually gotten to do it.

In Sleeping Beauty land, we get to team up with Prince Phillip who looks... frankly he looks like a beta asset or something compared to the other character models! We also get a fight with Maleficent in dragon form in which she flies from time to time, but the wings are so tiny compared to the rest of the body and the animation is so dumpy that I had to pause the game to compose myself. Aside from that bit of unintentional comedy the fight was really exciting and cool. I cannot help but feel that the impact is lessened a little by her also doing the dragon thing in KH1, but they obviously didn't know that they'd be making this many KH games at the time.

I ended my latest session at Olympus Coliseum, a name I've consistently spelling as *Colosseum* because that is the Greek derivation of the word, but Kingdom Hearts has apparently decided to go for the Latin variant for the world set in **ancient Greece**.
Out of all of the worlds so far this one feels like it has the most contrived excuse for having the character be there. Aqua is looking for Terra, but was told that he's already left after he won the tournament. Like, she knows that he's gone to another world entirely, but for some reason she signs up for a tournament herself because Phill suggests that Terra might show up to defend his title? What? Why?? How?? This is especially maddening because I've already played Terra's story and I know for a fact that he never went back.

Oh god, I almost forgot to mentioned Disney Town. Storywise, the plot has been the same for every character, you go there, meet Pete being a jerk, hear about the Million Dreams Award, do a minigame, leave. With Aqua you get to see the exciting conclusion to the Disney Town arc however, in which we see Pete get banished to a dimensional void for making Queen Minnie sad, but Maleficent (somehow) reaches out to him telepathically and helps him escape by opening a portal. Aqua gets the most votes and wins the Million Dreams Award (actually it's a tie between her, Ventus and Terra, but the other two aren't here at this point) and gets to eat a special icecream made to look like Minnie Mouse... yay?