Kingdom Hearts update:
I have finished all of Birth by Sleep! Or at least the parts that feel meaningful to do, I won't be 100%-ing the Trinity Archives, since that would mean having to replay all three stories on a higher difficulty to get one of the trophies and a bunch of other stuff, and it's not like you get anyting for doing it.
My last proper update left off with Aqua doing a really pointless visit to Hercules-land. It manages to almost redeem itself slightly by the end, not reall from a story perspective or anything, but simply because Zack asks Aqua out on a date by the end of it and their interaction was pretty cute and fun. Part of me really wants to see how an actual date would've gone between these two, I'm sure it would've been a highlight of the game in one way or another.
I don't have a lot to say about Deep Space (Stitch-land), but I guess it was a nice change of pace not to be a stowaway on the spaceship.
With Never Land it felt a little inconsistent that Peter Pan was so trusting of Aqua compared to Terra, even though they're both adults. The boss fight against Vanitas was the first time I felt like I had to straight up abandon the story for a little bit to go and grind a few levels. After that it was a quick stop by Yen Sid in the Mysterious Tower where Aqua learns that Luke Skywalker has been murdered by Spock with the help of Terra and she promptly sets off to find him.

> Joke explainer: Eraqus is voiced by Mark Hamill and Xehanort by Leonard Nimoy, it's wonderful. For a little while I was confused because I thought the credits said that Patrick Stewart was voicing Braig/Xigbar, even though it sounded nothing like him, until I realized that James Patrick Stuart is an entirely differnet person.

Afterwards we're off to the final visit to Keyblade Graveyard and I have to say that the final fights of Aqua's story are a little tepid after you've done the two others, because it's a refight with Braig from Terra's story and then it's just Vanitas *again*. Sure it's slightly different from the regular fight with him because he has the χ-blade, but even *that* is a fight we had already playing as Ventus, and this time it's easier because we've got Mickey Mouse helping out.
I just had a terrible thought. I'm pretty sure I've heard that Mickey Mouse was originally intended to be the protagonist of the story, but they later decided to make it an OC instead, and that's why Sora's clothes look the way they do in the first game, red shorts and big yellow shoes. Now, does the whole *key* thing come from Mic*key*'s name or is that just a coincidence?

Conspiracies aside, once I picked up the secret report I was missing on Terra's file, this leads into the Final Episode in which things are actually resolved. We start off by actually getting to hear what Aqua was told by Eraqus at the beginning of the game when she became master. This was kind of a lazy reveal because by rights we should've heard it when starting Aqua's story, but I've gotten used to these games withholding information for the sake of intrigue by now.
The Lands of Departure being revealed to actually be Castle Oblivion or vice versa was a huge "Whaaat? Why??" moment, truly the answer to a question I didn't have. I can only guess that Nomura wanted to give Castle Oblivion more of a purpose somehow, because in Chain of Memories it's just kind of there. Now, it seems to me that Organization could've made something like this if they wanted to, I mean, just look at their base in The World that Never Was, the Dreadnaught gummi ship, or Xehanort's dragon-spaceship-thing. The castle was really no more inexplicable to me than any of those other things. So I guess it's supposed to be that they were actually looking for the room Aqua leaves Ventus's comatose body in all along to... uh, make the χ-blade or something?

I ended up having to grind a few levels for the fight with Terra-Xehanort, then he wasn't too bad, especially once I remembered that the way I beat him with Terra was to just block and counterattack. Second phase was actually easier because he's less in your face all the time.
Then we enter the grind-zone for satisfying the conditions of unlocking the secret ending: Completing all the sticker albums and defeating a total of 9999 Unversed. The latter one is especially tedious, but as I've mentioned before it made me explore more of the game that I otherwise wouldn't have and kind of like with Chain of Memories I did reconcile a bit with some of the systems I really didn't care for. It also presented an oppertunity to beef out one of the characters to hopefully better deal with the infamous secret bosses of this particular title. As it happens both of the especially insane bosses have very cheesy solutions, but getting more abillities definitely helped. Finally getting "Second chance" and "Leaf bracer" unlocked was especially useful and so was "Magic haste". I've actually beaten every optional boss in all of the KH games I've played so far in this retrospective (except 358/2 Days of course) and I'd feel wrong about breaking that streak, so I suffered through getting Mirage Arena to level 30 as well, which meant beating all of the levels in the terrible racing mini game along with winning 7 (seven!) rounds of Command Board. I now understand the workings of that minigame way better but I still hate it just as much. So I took care of the secret bosses in Mirage Arena as well. Armour of Eraqus took more tries for me than No Heart (who went down on my first go and who is totally a mystery and not at all Xehanort), even though the latter is presumably supposed to be the harder one, since he's the final challenge.

After that all that remained was the secret ending. It starts out with a few little short scenes with various characters to remind us what the bits the series considers unresolved so far, but ultimately doesn't really add anything. The gameplay itself was a nice little jaunt through the Realm of Darkness, it's kind of cool to actually get to interact with that envoirenment instead of just seeing it in cutscenes and it hits some of that KH1 nostalgia.
Overall I really liked Birth By Sleep, even if the mechanics were daunting at first. I appreciated the overall difficulty being higher for this title compared to KH2. It feels like a lot of the stuff this game brings up is going to be really important for the series going forward so it's a little wacky to think of it as "just" a sidegame, but apparently Nomura also considers it more like KH0 according to an interview snippet I came across. When I get to DDD I'm going to try and imagine what it'd be like to play that game without the context of prior games, I imagine that'll be fun.

But yeah, that marks the end of actual gameplay for the *Kingdom Hearts HD 1.5+2.5 ReMIX* compillation, now I just need to suffer through the 3 hour Re:Coded cutscene compillation (and believe you me, I *will* get through that, I am morbidly curious to see just how tedious and pointless that part is) and then I'll be completely done until I decide to move on to the *Kingdom Hearts HD 2.8 Final Chapter Prologue* compillation!