*ahem*
I'm finally delving into Kingdom Hearts... χ[chi], Unchained χ, Union χ[Cross], whichever you want to call it. Since this is going to be a weird fragmentary cutscene compilation I'm going to try and do my summary in a different format too, something more like a journal written in tandem with the experience. This might end up growing really long and tedious so I'm going to try and split this up in something like "chapters" with a cheeky summary for each. It's probably also going to contain a lot of misunderstandings and give undue attention to plot points that end up not mattering while glossing over some that actually do.

## Chapter 0

First things first, I want to give a little bit of context to the whole thing.
I know it seems like I'm giving an awful lot of reverence in introducing this the most pointless of Kingdom Hearts entries, but I can't help but be fascinated by oddity of it and I want to give as good a summary as I can for something I know nobody has any interest in actually engaging with.
The title started off as a Japanese exclusive browser game called Kingdom Hearts χ[chi] in 2013. Roughly two years later the game was reworked and released worldwide for mobile devices and renamed to Kingdom Hearts Unchained χ. I imagine the new name is a bit of a play on the game becoming available to an international audience along with the freedom of playing it on the go.
Kingdom Hearts Unchained χ actually replaces Kingdom Hearts χ[chi] with a sort of a in-universe reboot of the setting. The first half of its story is called Unchained χ and largely follows the original χ[chi] one, but later diverges into a new narrative called Union χ.
Another two years later, 2017, the game was once more rebranded, this time to Kingdom Hearts Union χ[Cross] to celebrate the addition of co-op adventures. The base game itself was mercifully untouched so I don't need to spend half an hour cross-referencing Wiki articles to figure out what is called what and why.
In 2020 the game received its final name change, Kingdom Hearts Union χ Dark Road, which saw the addition of an entirely seperate game - Kingdom Hearts Dark Road - bundled into the app. Now, I won't actually be playing Dark Road for this summary, since it was released after Kingdom Hearts III and I've been doing things largely in order of release so far.

By 2021 the online components of Union χ were discontinued and Dark Road followed suit a little over a year after. While Dark Road is still playable, Union χ has been reduced to a theatre mode where figuring out the order of the cutscenes is left as an exercise to the user.
With all of this out of the way it's finally time to begin diving into this mess itself instead of the mess that surrounds it.
Ah, but before we do that, the original intro cutscene isn't in the game anymore. I don't think it was included in Kingdom Hearts Unchained χ, but the original χ[chi] release had a pop-up book sequence with Kairi along with her grandmother in Radiant Garden listening to the story we originally heard her tell in KH1 and later BBS.
I don't think I've really mentioned it in any of my previous summaries, but it basically serves as a broad outline for Kingdom Hearts χ, so it seems relevant to go over it now.
According to the story, long ago the world used to be one connected whole sustained by light. At some point people began to fight over the light and this caused darkness to spread and swallowed the world. Fragments of light lived on, in the hearts of children specifically according to the story. It's from these fragments that we get the isolated worlds that make up the setting as we know it. The story ends with a promise that some day the door to inmost darkness darkness will open, and from that, true light will return, but I think this part is left out of the cutscene.

a> **In summary:** Kingdom Hearts χ is a confusing product with as many aliases as Xehanort, it serves as a prequel to the series as a whole set during the original Keyblade War.

## Chapter 1

The "game", such as it is, begins with the obligatory dive into the heart in which our OC awakens. We pick one of the five Unions to belong to. The game, at least in its current state, provides precisely zero context for what the unions are at this point. The next cutscene sees us appearing in Daybreak Town, which seems to be the main hub. Here a person in an animal mask corresponding to our chosen Union shows up and indirectly tells us that our task seems to be to gather light and bring peace to the world, while keeping an eye out for those who are gathering light for selfish reasons.
Oh, and there are Heartless, we beat those up with the help of a bunch of other Keyblade wielders who show up. The next cutscene suddenly has a weird talking cat creature standing next to us telling us that it understands everything is very overwhelming but that darkness is spreading to other worlds and we have to go and help. And so we set off for the first world: Dwarf Woodlands, aka Snow White's world.
If it feels like the story skipped giving us a little more context for who we are and what we're doing, that's because the initial meeting with the weird cat thing isn't included in the cutscene. I looked up on YouTube and there's a little dialogue where it gives our player character more context for what's going on. I mean, it's mostly just affirming what I already thought, but without that little dialogue this little sequence feels really janky and disconnected.
The weird cat isn't named in the cutscene (**edit:** actually it is, but that part was cut out of the video I was watching for some reason!), but they're on the title screen so it's probably going to be someone important. Feels like our first meeting would be kind of relevant to show! From osmosis I happen to know the cat's name is Chirithy, so I'll at least know who that name refers to if it suddenly comes up without context later down the line.

This all puts me in mind of Guild War 2's problem with its Living Story, though that's a more dire example. The first season of its story following the base game's main story was delivered as a series of updates that gradually changed the world in permanent ways or had content that was only available for a limited time. By season 2 they abandoned the approach and delivered updates in a more traditional episodic and replayable format. But that story still starts immediately following the last part of season 1 in spite of it being inaccessible content and dumps you into a group of characters you are assumed to already know and care about. It's like reading The Hobbit and then skipping straight to The Two Towers.

a> **In summary:** Kingdom Hearts χ is a confusing product with a bungled introduction, we're a Keyblade wielder out to save the world(s) from the Heartless and our first stop is Snow White's world, also we have a weird cat friend named Chirithy and Guild Wars 2 really messed up its long-term narrative.

## Chapter 2

It seems the way Kingdom Hearts χ handles its worlds is somewhat like how 358/2 Days did it, namely you jump between a handful of worlds and visit them many times, advancing their plots incrementally. Here to begin with we're just introducing things, so with Dwarven Woodlands we get a scene introducing the relevant characters of the Snow White story, it's much like how things went Birth By Sleep, which was much like how things went in the movie, if we ignore the malevolent shadow demons.
Speaking of, something I forgot to rant about is precisely the inclusion of the Heartless. The whole reason we got the Unversed as enemies in Birth By Sleep is because it was set before Kingdom Hearts 1 when the barriers preventing the Heartless from entering were still in place. I guess the in-universe justification is going to be something like this world not having those barriers yet or simply that the same thing is happening in Kingdom Hearts 1 again. If these various locations we visit are meant to feel connected in a way that they aren't in the other games, they simply don't. The game even calls them individual worlds, but perhaps I'm misunderstanding something.
Another thing I need to vent about is how the Disney worlds are ones we've already seen in other entries and even now several hundred years earlier (or more) in the timeline here we are, reenacting the same plots like the worlds are all stuck in some kind of nightmarish loop. I already had this feeling when playing 358/2 Days and it's amplified a great deal with this entry and made all but canonical the way things look at the moment.

We're introducing three worlds for now each with a simple immediate story: In Dwarven Woodlands we're trying to reunite all the dwarves after they got lost following a Heartless attack; In Wonderland we're trying to help Alice find the White Rabbit; In Agrabah Abu has gone missing following a Heartless attack.
Back in Daybreak Town we see a shooting star that later turns out to be Donald and Goofy crash-landing their gummi ship. They both already know what Keyblades are which really seems to indicate that they've travelled back to the past somehow. I won't speculate too much on this point until more is revealed, because it's a waste to make myself angry over contrived explanations for cramming every single recognizable character into a game no matter the cost to the narrative; at least until the explanation has been given. All in good time, I'm sure.

Donald and Goofy ask us to go find the scattered gummi pieces, which we of course agree to do. The pieces are carried by Gummi Heartless which are of course scattered across the various worlds, so off we go to look.
Oh, there's also a scene with Chirithy where they give us a piece of equipment and cheer us on before vanishing in a puff of smoke. Then the scene ends with what appears to be another Chirithy walking into the scene and seeming confused.

a> **In summary:** Kingdom Hearts χ is a confusing product with strange implications for the series, all worlds are seemingly long-term Groundhog Day loops and Donald and Goofy seem to be time travellers who arrived in a broken gummi ship that we need to help them fix. There's also something weird about the weird cat.

## Chapter 3

At the moment it feels a little distressing how much I've written and how little progress I've actually made on the story, but I think it's mostly a case of there being a lot to unpack with the initial set up and the vast majority of what's coming up being filler that I'll be able to gloss over fairly quickly once we get into the swing of things. Mickey shows up along with Chip and Dale to look for Donald and Goofy while also wondering about what caused them to show up here in the first place - that makes two of us, Mickey. We find the missing gummi blocks and Chip and Dale help  Donald and Goofy rebuild their gummi ship and everyone leaves again.
Now Chirithy decides to gives their own backstory: They were grown in a tube by their master, and uh, that's it for now. Then we get some backstory for the game itself: The guy who made Chirithy had six apprentinces. Before disappearing he gave them all names and gave five of them a book called The Book of Prophecy. These five became known as the foretellers, the leaders of the five Unions. The last entry of the book says that light is fated to eventually succumb to everlasting darkness. The book has some kind of power that the foretellers could somehow harness to somehow prevent this from coming to pass.
Chirithy tells use that we're using some of that power, namely "medals" that comes from the future. I was really unsure what this was referring to so I looked up on the Wiki. These seem to be sort of a catch-all category for player equipment in the game like abillities, special attacks and so on. A lot - if not all - of them are associated with various Disney characters, and probably also Kingdom Hearts stuff, so much like the reused Disney worlds it's a lazy excuse to include things that shouldn't be here as per the timeline.

Speaking of reused Disney worlds, we can also visit Olympus Coliseum where we sign for a tournament because Hercules lets us take his spot. Hercules shows up as a grown-up rather than an adolescent like he did in the Birth By Sleep prequel, so this is definite proof that there's some non-linear or looping time shenannigans at play with the Disney worlds, though it's still up in the air if you're at all supposed to question it as a player.
I'm really debating wether it's even worth mentioning that we help defend Snow White in Dwarven Woodlands. The huntsman is weirdly missing from both the story both in Birth By Sleep and here. Chirithy appears out of thin air to tell us that hers is a light that the world cannot stand to loose. So yeah, Princesses of Heart are still a thing. It's honestly kind of incredible how filler-like the filler feels when you take the interactivity out of them, even compared to previous entries in the series. I don't expect to really bring up the individual Disney worlds except for how they begin unless something important happens, or, much more likely, something really silly.

a> **In summary:** Donald and Goofy leave again. We learn that Chirithy was grown in a tube and the guy who did it named the foretellers and gave them a book they're now using to fight the darkness by making weapons out of the future.

## Chapter 4

By the gods, the actual plot seems to have started now! Chirithy happens to come across Chirithy and they have a conversation together. Uh... I looked it up and there are actually multiple of them. It's not a specific entity named Chirithy, it's more like a Pokémon situation where every wielder gets one and if the wielder "disappears" the Chirithy they're bound to also vanishes, which we see happen. Our character has a dream where they see the five foretellers in a room with a guy wearing an dark coat just like the Organization XIII one, the room suddenly fills with darkness and our character wakes up. After falling back asleep Chirithy has a conversation with another Chirithy with a darker fur colour, is it the same one as before? I'm not sure, conventional storytelling would suggest so, but this is Kingdom Hearts.
The dark Chirithy seems to have been the one showing us the dream and our Chirithy says that it's trying to do the opposite of whatever the dark Chirithy is doing, making them enemies according to the dark Chirithy.

The next morning we meet another wielder named Ephemer who is in another Union than us (the game makes sure to always pick a different one), he's been doing some investigation and gives us some info. Apparently all the Disney worlds are holograms conjured up by the Book of Prophecies of far away lands. I don't exactly know what the implications of this is supposed to be. Ephemer also says that contrary to what we've been told the Unions actually all have different goals they're trying to achieve, not just different ways of obtaining the same goal. Our character tells Ephemer about the dream we had and we head off to try and find the room.
The two Chirithys have another talk, our Chirithy asks if the other one belongs to Ephemer, but doesn't get a straight answer. The dark Chirithy asks ours if it'll allow us to discover the truth. Our Chirithy says that the dark Chirithy isn't the same colour as before, which seems to be a point in favour of this being one we've actually seen in previous cutscenes.

We head into the sewers(?) and find a way into the tower that the room from our dream seems to have been in, but Ephemer says we should wait until next day to explore further since the Unions might become supsecious if we're gone for too long. We make a promise to meet by the fountain but Ephemer doesn't show, instead going into the tower on his own without our knowledge. Chirithy comes to cheer us up and we lift them up and give them a hug, briefly revealing the Dream Eater symbol previously hidden by their cape. I uh... don't entirely get what Chirithy being a Dream Eater changes, but I suppose it does go a long way to make sense of why there are more of them and how you can just synthesize one.
There's a cutscene taking place earlier in the day with Ephemer talking to the leader of one of the Unions, Master Ava. They talk about how great it would be if everyone could just work together and it ends with Ava wishing she could send everyone far away like the symbolic dandelion seeds that conveniently show up at this moment. Then we get a title card.
I, uh... I guess we've only just now cleared the introduction. Oh dear, quite a ways to go...

a> **In summary:** Concrete plot begins to happen but everything is progressing so vaguely that it's hard to summarize, something's up with the foretellers and our new friend Ephemer is helping us investigate. Chirithy is a Dream Eater and every keyblade wielder gets one.


## Chapter 5

We have another dream, this time about Ephemer, we're about to enter the tower with him, but he says that we're not ready yet and that he'll be waiting before disappearing in a puff of dandilion seeds. Our character wants to go looking for Ephemer, Chirithy mentions that tensions between the foretellers have been on the rise and warns us not to go but of course we ignore them. Down in the sewers we run into Master Ava, she presses us on why we're here and appreciates our honesty. Then she decides to test us in battle, she readily beats us but says that we show promise before telling us to leave the restricted area.
Later when our character is asleep she shows up in our room to chat with Chirithy about Ephemer. Chirithy insists that they didn't put the dream in our heads and Ava suspects that Ephemer may have done it himself since he's "close to the truth" and has "fallen into an unchained state and now finds himself in a different realm". Uh... not sure what that means yet, but if I had to guess it's probably something to do with the Book of Prophecies and holograms like something out of The Matrix.

Uh, somewhere along the way we start visiting Beast's Castle. Compared to the other appearances of the world the plot here is more in line with the movie. Gaston even makes an appearance by the end, conjuring up what is honestly a neat-looking huntsman/beastly Heartless with antlers. There's another short scene with Ava and Chirithy where she says that she's got no choice to push our abillities since darkness is drawing close.
After coming back from a mission we sit by the fountain and meet a girl named Skuld. She's a friend of Ephemer and says that she's been seeing him in her dreams too. We're about to head down to the sewers together when suddenly there's a loud boom and shake. At least two of the foretellers are fighting and Skuld tells us that Ephemer told her that the end of the world is close. Our character actually speaks for once saying "Let's go!", Chirithy acts surprised so I think it's supposed to point to something. Or maybe they just got sick of trying to do the silent protagonist bit.

We head into the tower once again, we're confronted with the dark Chirithy now turned into a Nightmare and talking about how great darkness is. It says that their wielder is closer than we think and then disappears. We finally find the chamber from our dreams and in there meet Master Ira. He says that he made Ephemer disappear and our character does the obligatory anime friendship talk, then fights Master Ira and gets their butt kicked. Ah, but it turns out this was all a ruse, a holographic projection conjured up by Master Ava to see if we were worthy of joining the Dandilions, a special group of good boys and girls who're to survive the coming Keyblade War by leaving all their friends behind. Ava also reveals that she's chosen Ephemer to lead the Dandilions in her place once she's gone.
Skuld joins, but our character is hesitant, probably a gameplay concession to maintain the Union mechanic.
Now I've basically reached the point where the guide I'm using suggests watching Kingdom Hearts χ Back Cover, the 1 hour video that came with Kingdom Hearts II.8 HD Final Chapter Prologue.

a> **In summary:** Darkness is closing in, the foretellers are starting to fight and it looks like the world is about to end, but we've been selected for the special repopulation programme! Also our character speaks now.


## Chapter 6

Oh sheesh, this is where things get confusing again. The original browser version, χ[chi], ended with depicting the Keyblade War and that's where the story ended. For Unchained/Union[cross] the story continues on from there with our character loosing their memories of what happened during the finale. That content was apparently still accessible as a side story in the mobile game, with a little introduction from Chirithy presenting it as lost memories. The story that continues with Unchained/Union[cross] is like an entirely new thing and I'm sure it's going to spiral into its own kind of weirdness and nonsense, but I don't think I can talk about that right now. I'll try to end this summary with the finale of the browser version and then we can get into the other stuff some other time.
Uh... given how much I've talked about the dark Chirithy plot I guess I ought to go over how that ends, even if it doesn't really end up mattering. Turns out it doesn't belong to Ephemer or anyone else we know. It belongs to us, gasp! Uhm, and then it absorbs the bodies of some humans that it'd turned into minions of darkness and becomes a big Nightmare demon thing. It's seemingly doing all of this to sever the bond that exists between us and become free. Why do we have two Chirithys? Don't know. Anyway, we defeat it and it fades, but says that we'll see meet again "in another dream". Oh, uh, I guess I left out the part where we received a bangle a while back that was supposed to absorb dark energy and turn it into light but that was actually a ruse by the dark Chirithy to make itself more powerful or something.
Uh... I've struggled for the past hour or so with how to explain the next bit, so I'll just try and give some context and then go from there as best I can.
Kingdom Hearts χ Back Cover is largely a retelling of all the stuff I've gone over already, but with a focus on the foretellers specifically so that their actions make a bit more sense, even if the entire thing still ends up feeling very contrived. As mentioned earlier the foretellers are apprentinces to a guy named the Master of Masters, he gave all of them a specific role to carry out and then disappeared. The sixth apprentice, Luxu, was given the unique task of simply observing things as they play out. In Back Cover we also see him being given the Master of Masters's keyblade, which is the same as Xehanort's. Furthermore Luxu is tasked with taking an apprentice and pass the keyblade down through from apprentice to apprentice.
The reason for this is that the keyblade apparently holds one of the Master of Masters's eyes and this whole process will let him receive knowledge of the future so he can write the Book of Prophecies, which he's already done, so I guess the plan worked out. So I guess all of Kingdom Hearts is now officially embedded in some kind of time loop, joy.
This scene also introduces a **GIANT LITERAL MYSTERY BOX** that Luxu is told that he can never ever open, the Master of Master whispers to him what's inside of it, though we don't get to hear it of course.
Uh... I guess the Keyblade War happens. Everyone fights everyone and everyone dies, sorry, disappears. After fighting against every foreteller our character collapses exhausted on the battlefield, now recognizable as the Keyblade Graveyard like how we saw it in Birth By Sleep. Kingdom Hearts appears in the sky and Skuld and Ephemer show up to welcome us into the next world as we reach out to take their hand with teary eyes. Fade to white. End.
If it feels like I'm rushing through this it's because I am, I'm trying to outrun my desire to try and give more context and details to all of this, but I can't because the way that the game continues with Unchained makes it impossible to explain without opening a whole can of worms I simply have to leave for another time.
Kingdom Hearts χ[chi] has an additional final cutscene that isn't included in Unchained, which sees our character reawakening in Sleeping Beauty's world. We seem confused and seem to have forgotten about everything that happened after Ava tried to recruit us for the Dandilions. Chirithy is either gaslighting us or also doesn't entirely remember. We explore around a little but find out path blocked by a giant wall of thorns. Chirithy suggests we go home for today and come back tomorrow. The camera pans over as we leave to reveal Maleficent, gloating that Sora and his friends will never find her in this world. And so, we end on more time traveling nonsense. Perfect.

a> **In summary:** Rocks fall everyone dies.

**TO BE CONTINUED**