Did somebody say unexpected and uninvited Kingdom Hearts update? No? Good! Because that's exactly what you're getting!
So, I've gone through more of Kingdom Hearts χ, specifically the bits of it that were available up until the release of Kingdom Hearts III. Actually I went through slightly more than that, because otherwise I didn't feel like I had enough context for some of the things that get brought up.
But before getting into that I want to rant a little more about the incompleteness of Theatre Mode! I fast forwarded through one of the dozen χ story compilations that are on YouTube and found two entire side stories that I wasn't able to see, plus three minor conversations that give a little bit more context to our character's search for Ephemer after he goes missing. It's not that the "missing" bits are especially important, but it is sort of indicative of the slapdash state of it all. One of the side stories I'd previously missed sees Donald, Goofy, Chip and Dale landing in Daybreak Town *again* after their first visit. This visit seemingly takes place during the very beginning of Kingdom Hearts 1 (at least from their perspective?), since they're going around and looking for a "Key". Hijinx ensue and they urgently have to leave, I think because Chip and Dale figure out what's going on(?), and nothing of course comes of it.

I also don't think I talked about how strange it feels to have our character be super driven by finding Ephemer despite having only met exactly once. I don't meant to say that it's out of place for our character to care about others, they do that all the time, but I think it would flow better if Ephemer was there from the very beginning, maybe part of the tutorial to show us the ropes and such. The reason it really sticks out to me is because our character is tearing up when they're finally reunited in the end and that sort of catharsis would feel more earned if Ephemer had had more of a presence. But then again, it's entirely possible that he actually did and it simply doesn't come across in the somewhat amputated version of the game that I'm experiencing. 
All in all, once we get into Union [cross] proper things get a lot more focused and easier to talk about, because while weird shit still happens, it's nowhere near as vague most of the time. But maybe I've just become acclimatised to χ by now.
Anyway, back to where we were getting to:
I left off last time where the original browser version of Kingdom Hearts χ ended, namely with the Keyblade War where just about everyone dies and the world gets broken up into isolated "bits" and our character waking up seemingly with no memory of the matter.
Well! Turns out we actually need to go over the events of the original Kingdom Hearts χ game again before we can really move forward because there is, as always, some context that needs some "re-" and "-ualizing".

Master Ava was tasked with recruiting Keyblade wielders into an organization separate from the other Unions, the Dandelions, who would be the ones to survive the Keyblade War by leaving the world behind. Among those, five were chosen in secret to be the new leaders of the Unions. These five were given a rulebook to guide them and of those five one is secretly given a copy of the Book of Prophecy to, uhm, "help shape the world into what it's supposed to be" according to the Master of Masters. Furthermore, everyone except those five leaders will loose their memories of the war and the events leading up to it for the sake of plot conven-... err, I mean, to shield them from the trauma of the past!
The way the story is told at this point is a little awkward because our own character is practically absent for it, since all of this is a secret to them. Unless I say so, just assume that everything for the next while does not include our character's presence.
We see the new leaders of the Unions gradually meet up on the spot where the Keyblade War took place, first to arrive is Ephemer and then Skuld, who we both know from the story so far in case you forgot. Next is Ventus(!) from Birth By Sleep of all people who we're just supposed to accept has always been here I guess. To me this raises some serious questions about when this is even supposed to take place, since I figured this was all in the distant past. But then again, literally anything can happen in this setting at this point so it's nearly pointless to speculate. Fourth to show up is an entirely new character, Mr. Fedora himself: Brain.
Around this point this sequence gets interupted by a flashback of sorts, where we are presented with another new character, a girl named Strelitzia. She mostly keeps to herself and spends a lot of her time sitting on top of a roof. She's apparently been seeing us all around during our adventures while doing her own missions, we just never noticed her. She really wants to properly meet our character but has never mustered the courage to talk to them. I view this as a clumsy attempt to make us care about her before she is killed off to serve as one of the central mysteries of this leg of the story. You see, Strelitzia was supposed to be the fifth Union leader, but a mysterious figure killed her while she was going about Daybreak Town looking for our character to stop them from taking part in the Keyblade War.
The fifth person who shows up at the Keyblade Graveyard is instead a lanky pink-haired boy named Lauriam. A name you might notice is an anagram for Marluxia (with an added X of course), the Organization XIII member who served as the primary antagonist of Chain of Memories.

The Union leaders get set up in the Foreteller's old meeting room and start making plans for how to handle things. You know, stuff like when to tell everyone that the Foretellers are actually gone now, how to interpret the rules in the rulebooks, who should lead what Union, and what to do about those nightmares people are having as a consequence of their supressed memories of the end of the world.
Brain has a very unproblematic and ethical idea where they take some samples (fur? blood?) from all the Chirithy along with some other ingredients and make new Dream Eaters to simply make those bad thoughts disappear. Everyone is super on board with this! To be fair, there is some discussion about the ethics about the whole concealing the truth thing prior to this, but I still feel super weird about the whole affair, which is probably intended.

So, what is our character actually doing while all this is going on besides having nightmares?
Visiting Disney worlds of course! We go to Cinderella's world and Sleeping Beauty's world and more or less reenact the source material, with the addition of the Heartless that is, business as usual. We also make friends with some other Keyblade wielders and go to the beach and eat sea salt ice cream because no other ice creams exist in this universe (except in Birth By Sleep where you could synthesize various ice creams for temporary stat boosts).
Okay, time for things to get weird now! Remember how Kingdom Hearts χ ended on Maleficent having traveled back in time? Yeah, it's time to unpack that can of worms.
In Sleeping Beauty's world our character helps Prince Phillip defeat Maleficent. Afterwards we get to see a long scene where Maleficent limps back to her castle and asks herself why she is never able to change the ending of the story. From the shadows a mysterious figure calling themself "Darkness" tells her that it's because that she's not in the real world, but rather in a data representation of her world, in which events cannot be rewritten. You see, when Maleficent first met Master Xehanort in Birth By Sleep he told her about all sorts of things like Kingdom Hearts and the Princesses of Heart, but apparently also how to travel through time. So when Riku stabbed her in Kingdom Hearts 1 and turned her into a dragon, what actually happened was that she was able to go back in time because her heart had become released. Why does she still have a body now even though Ansem (the Seeker of Darkness) didn't when he traveled back to Destiny Islands? Shut up, that's why.
Maleficent went back in time to try and undo her defeat back in Birth By Sleep, but now she's here instead and apparently "Darkness" is responsible *somehow*. "Darkness" goes on to list a whole bunch of convenient contrivances as to why Maleficent can't collect the Seven Princes of Heart (Radiant Gardens doesn't have a corresponding data version) or just go grab the Kingdom Hearts that showed up at the end of Kingdom Hearts χ (Enchanted Dominion didn't exist prior to the Keyblade War). Darkness says that this was all to prevent Maleficent from taking knowledge of the past into the future and instructs her on how to return to her own time.
I, uhm... I think I preferred when this was all just handwaved away as a spell in Kingdom Hearts II 😅

Meanwhile, the Union leaders have another dilemma on their hands: The rulebook says that they're supposed to have arena fights between the Keyblade wielders, called Shift Pride. Ventus and Skuld both say that it sounds like a bad idea to have Keyblade wielders fighting each other. Brain says it's probably fine. Lauriam is mysteriously absent but has apparently told Brain that he'll support whatever Ephemer decides. Ephemer decides to go ahead with it, but instead of having real people fight one another they'll only fight data versions of them, since they've got data versions of all the worlds and the people in them lying around.
Ephemer credits the idea to Lauriam because he only thought of it because of a meeting they had previously where Lauriam reveals that he's been going over that selfsame data in search for a member of the Dandelions who's missing. That someone is Strelitzia, who we shortly find out is his sister. He meets up with one of her friends to try and figure out her last known whereabouts. The friends name is Elrena, which is an anagram for Larxene, the token girl member of Organization XIII if you don't count Xion.
Collectively the Union leaders slowly piece together that Strelitzia was looking for our character and that's how they finally get reintroduced to the plot. This is apparently the last piece of content that was available prior to the release of Kingdom Hearts III, but I went a little further.
While Lauriam and Ephemer are over and talking to our character Brain talks with Skuld and Ventus about how the world is still headed towards destruction and how he has a plan. Of course the scene fades out before he actually gets to elaborate on anything, but we get to hear those magical words: "I'm going to become a virus and overwrite the program that is this world's future."

Elrena has been doing a little investigation on her own and comes across a glitchy apparition of Strelitzia's final moments and more glitches start showing up all over the place soon after, including Heartless that look distinctly like the corrupted data Blox we saw in Kingdom Hearts Re:Coded.
Ephemer and our character rushes to the control room where they meet with Brain who's about to lay out some more weirdness.
He reiterates that prior to the Keyblade War all the worlds were connected as one by land, but we were using the Book of Prophesies to visit future projections of those worlds. Since it was known ahead of time the Keyblade War would happen those projections were all recreated as data to make them accessible. Apparently the flow is that you go from the real Daybreak Town to the virtual one and from there you go to whichever world you want to visit. But now the question is raised as to which version of Daybreak Town we're currently in.
The glitches that are happening clearly point to this being a virtual setting, but I'm sure there's a host of complications that'll get added to any kind of answer to that question later on.
Anyway, the glitches that are happening seem to be coming from previously unconnected world that isn't supposed to exist in this place or time. Brain stays behind to try and stabilized the portal to this new place while Ephemere and our character go forth into this mysterious new place.
It's Wreck-It Ralph.

And that's where we'll end it for now.