Okay...
Are you ready for this?
I put this off for a little bit, but it's time to try and summarize things for the last Kingdom Hearts update of Dream Drop Distance.
Something I realized that I'd forgotten to mention in the last update was that Maleficent and Pete kidnapped Minnie and sent a letter to threaten Mickey about it while he was at Yen Sid's tower.
The reason I forgot to mention it is because it is immediately resolved and serves only to remind us of what happened in Kingdom Hearts Coded and that Maleficent is looking for a special kind of book that can apparently create worlds. As I recall the mobile game has kind of a storybook look to it, so I imagine that might tie into this somehow.
Anyway, the final world Sora and Riku visit is The World That Never Was, Organization XIII's headquarters and where the finale of KH2 took place, except Riku and Sora are both still in the world of sleep, so this isn't the "real" The World That Never Was.

On Sora's side, he immediately gets ambushed by Xigbar/Braig, who goes on to reveal that everything that's been happening so far as been part of the Organization's plan to luring the two of them down into the deepest depths of sleep. It's a little unclear how exactly they've been doing this, because Riku and Sora have both been opening the seven sleeping keyholes as was their exam, but somehow the Organization was able to influence the "direction" their dive took.
Xigbar says that the Organization has been pulling the strings since the test began back on the dream version of Destiny Islands. He also says that the only that the reason Sora was able to visit this past version of Destiny Islands is because he had already been there. I'm really not sure why Xigbar is implying that Destiny Islands is one of the sleeping worlds, because we very clearly saw everyone go there by the end of KH2, maybe it used to be a sleeping world but got woken up at some point??
Err... anyway, Sora gets surrounded by more guys in black coats (13 in total, of course) and gets put into a sleep within his sleep and Young Xehanort is there to monologue and retcon a bunch of shit.

The scene shifts and we're seeing everything from Sora's POV, we're on Destiny Islands where we see a seperate version of Young Xehanort meeting the robed version of Ansem we saw in KH1, but who we know now was actually Xehanort's Heartless. Young Xehanort explains to Sora that this is where his (Xehanort's) journey began: By meeting a future version of himself who told him what to do. We also learn a little about the time travel mechanics of Kingdom Hearts. To travel through time you have to discard your body, so the robed Ansem (Xehanort's Heartless) we see is really just his heart, you can also only travel to places and times where another version of you is waiting. Once you've traveled back to a given point you can only travel forwards "as per the laws of time".
This is where Young Xehanort insists that the reason robed Ansem (Xehanort's heart) was there on the island back in KH1 was for the purposes of enacting the Organization's plan to interfere with Sora's and Riku's Keyblade exam. The reason he was able to plan this was because... oh god... uhm... because he could send Riku to Hollow Bastion to be corrupted by Maleficent and open himself up to darkness so he could take over Riku's body by the end of KH1 and that gave him access to Riku's memories and that informed about... uh... what Sora and Riku would do, or already did, and then he'd have that information to give himself later on when he traveled back in time to himself or... something??
No wait, that isn't the full explanation, the scene shifts to Traverse Town and Young Xehanort also goes on to say that predicting that Sora would be there on that day was "simple" because Sora has "been here many times before", making reference to KH1, CoM, Coded and DDD, the games in which Sora visits Traverse Town. I really don't know what point Xehanort is making here, he could just say that they snatched all of Sora's memories in CoM and he was able to infer what he needed to know from that. What does Coded have to do with anything? Xehanort wasn't even in that story!
I'm fully willing to admit that I'm misunderstanding some of this absolute clownshow of an explanation, but let's just move on. Really the point is just to say that Xehanort(s) planned everything.

At this point we switch over to Riku's side, he suspects something's fishy as soon as he arrives because he's such a smart boy and goes on to explore until he finds Sora sleeping inside of a bubble. He tries to wake Sora up and tells him not to chase the dreams. A nightmare pops out of Sora and it's a figure in a black cloak with red eyes and purple butterly patterns. I'd like to present you with the most ridiculously named boss in the series so far: Anti Black Cloak Nightmare.
I raged about this boss's stupid mechanics at an earlier date, so let's just skip ahead to the part where we beat it.

a> In the interest of some semblance of coherence and linearity, I've inserted this aforementioned "side rant" on Anti Black Cloak Nightmare from the 31th of October here.

So, Riku finds Sora sleeping inside of a dream and can't get him to wake up, then a figure shows up with red eyes and wearing an Organization XIII black cloak, except the cloak has purple butterfly like patterns on the sleeves and the Nightmare Dream Eater symbol on his back.
This guy is called Anti Black Cloak Nightmare, no really, and he's keeping Sora from waking up, apparently.
And he is probably the most annoying mandatory boss fight so far.
He has about five moves all in all.
One is just six quick hits, no biggie.
Another is a barrage of purple poison projectiles, no biggie.
He can launch a big red projectile that tries to "bite" you, hurts to get hit by, but still fair enough.
He can make a circle appear under your feat that does the same thing, very short window to dodge and it hurts quite a bit.
Now, before I mention his last attack I'll also mention that he teleports you and himself about randomly and he can use any of his moves basically at any time.
The last attack in his arsenal, has him shoot out a line along the ground that tracks towards you, if it hits you get sent up in the air and drained down to 1 HP, all your HP goes on the floor and the boss can basically heal himself up to full if you're unlucky with his positioning and movement.
This is already a really annoying move especially considering how quickly it comes at you, practically no warning. But the absolute worst thing about it is that the boss may choose to couple this attack with another, like he could randomly decide to put the AoE attack on you just as you land and before you have a chance to heal and that's a guaranteed game over.
He could also decide to do his poison barrage. Guaranteed game over.
He could also just happen to be next to you and do his regular attack right when you land.
If you get hit you basically just have to pray that the game is kind enough to give you the chance to heal.
I think the best approach is probably using spells to keep a distance so you can better react to his bullshit.
It's not even an optional fight, then I might be feeling less salty 😅
He just really sucks!
And yeah, as soon as I leveled a little bit and changed my kit to focus on long-range spells I managed to beat him.
The fight against Rinzler in the Tron world was really annoying too.
I think I'm getting more peeved at this game than the others because the "Drop" mechanic is kind of a constant low-key stress factor.
Also, as mentioned before, the game has almost zero NPCs outside of cutscenes so the worlds feel incredibly empty. Both Chain of Memories and 358/2 Days have the same problem, but at least in those you have the foyer rooms with your friends and the Organization members hanging around the HQ respectively.

Yay, it's done!
Afterwards Riku tries to get through to Sora again but he disappears entirely. Then Ansem (Xehanort's Heartless) shows up and starts to explain to Riku that Sora has fallen so deep into sleep that he can no longer wake up. He also reveals that Riku has been inside of Sora's dreams and that the version of The World That Never Was that he's in now is a dream of a dream. Again, I'm not sure how the logistics check out on this one. Like, which dreams are Sora inside of then? The realm of sleep itself and then Riku is nested inside of his perception and dreams of those dreams specifically? It's all very fuzzy and dumb, but thankfully we're nearly done having to worry about it, because now it's time for Ansem (Xehanort's Heartless) to debate with Riku about the merits of Darkness vs Light for the hundreth time and once again Riku refuses.
There's also some stuff about Riku being a Dream Eater because he's inside of Sora's dreams.
Then they fight and Riku wins and gets to wake up in the real world version of The World That Never Was, but since Sora is still sleeping Riku retains his Dream Eater powers, which he uses to make a really big chain to slide into the Organization's floating castle.

But before we talk about what happens on Sora's side of things again. Sora bumbles around and chases after visions, people who are connected to his heart show up like Xion and Roxas and eventually he sees Terra and Aqua too, while he himself briefly takes on the appearance of Ventus. At this point he fully drops into this so-called second sleep, which is probably when Riku saw him disppear. Xigbar is there to gloat some more and then Xemnas shows up to reveal that Nobodies can totally regrow their missing hearts.
We then learn that the Organization XIII we met in CoM and KH2 were actually just being manipulated by Xemnas into believing that they didn't have hearts so that they'd complete Kingdom Hearts to get one. But actually the reason they were trying to do that was to hook the Organization members up to it and put/split Xehanort's heart into all of them to make a total of 13 Xehanorts, but apparently there's a certain standard you have to meet to be fit for Xehanortification and Sora proved that most of the members weren't fit for the purpose by cudgeling them with a key. Xigbar is already half Xehanort. I don't know what the fuck that means. Is it like a little seed you plant and have to nurture to grow into a big and strong Xehanort?

Anyway, Xigbar goes on to say that the Keyblade didn't choose Sora because of who he is, but because of who he's connected with, Sora says he doesn't mind and that he's just happy to be part of something bigger and that his friends are his power!
This totally owns Xigbar and everyone claps. Okay, I lied about that last bit. But Xigbar ducks out and Sora fights Xemnas and wins. Ah, but this was all just a ploy to stall for time, because being this deep into the depths of sleep makes darkness take a hold of you because, uh, sleep lives inside darkness. So Sora('s heart) sinks into darkness and Young Xehanort shows up to say that all of this was to get a hold of Sora's body to make him into another Xehanort.
Inside of Sora's heart he see Sora falling into darkness but Ventus' heart appear in front of him and cover him in his armour, keeping him from being consumed, while his comatose body is taken to the Organization's meeting room.
Now back to Riku for the final stretch!

Riku finds Sora's body but is confronted by Young Xehanort who brings him up to speed with everything. It's at this point where I wonder why they even need Sora to begin with. If they can just use more versions of the same guy from across the timeline, couldn't you just have like... 13 Xehanorts, like, separated by just a couple of minutes or a few hours?
Young Xehanort says that the rules of time travel don't allow you to change anything that is destined to happen. I don't really see how this makes sense when his entire thing is going around and visiting himself across time and making sure that all of himselves meet up at the room at this exact point in time. This whole thing is a colossal grandfather paradox and I think those kinds of stories usually work better when the people perpetuating them are unaware of it, at least until it's too late. Apparently you also loose your memories of time traveling once you return to your original time. This is all awfully convenient, contrived and convoluted.
Anyway, in the middle of it all Mickey shows up and casts a powerful timestop spell on everyone except Riku, but Young Xehanort is able to move anyway because, uh, time shenanigans and/or a special Keyblade. Riku and Young Xehanort fight in/on a giant literal metaphor for a clock.
Urrrgghhh... so close to being done now!

Mickey's time spell wears off and the recompleted Master Xehanort appears to monologue a bit, which mostly boils down to him saying that all of this is to reenact the Keyblade War and forge the χ-blade and open the way to the real Kingdom Hearts, except this time for really realsies by making 13 darknesses and 7 lights punch eachother.
Before he can turn Sora into his 13th vessel Axel/Lea shows up and makes his spell blow up with fire, then Donald and Goofy fall from the sky and land on top of Ansem (Xehanort's Heartless)'s Guardian, which makes it go away. Then time's up and all of the Xehanorts go back to their own time.
Back at Yen Sid's tower Riku decides to dive into Sora's heart to make him wake up and this serves as the game's final boss battle. Y'know it doesn't really feel right having Sora overcome by darkness like this. This is the boy that stayed a good boy even when he became a Heartless. His whole thing is that he is the bestest boy. If you're going to have him succumb I feel like you need to properly convey that he is getting weakened or worn down by everything that's happening to him, or let his morals lapse a little because of desperation driven on by the Organization.
I think they tried to do this, but it mostly presented itself as Sora being sad for a moment while giving Roxas a handshake.

Anyway, once Riku punches Sora out of Ventus's armour Sora falls to the floor and sinks into a puddle of dark goop. Riku uses Sora's Keyblade to unlock Sora's heart and go... even deeper inside??
This is where he meets some of the people hanging around inside Sora's hearts, they ask him some questions that you have to answer correctly to get the secret ending. Then we meet Ansem (the real one) who apparently digitized himself and his research and put that into Sora's heart while he was fixing up Sora's memory back in KH2. Ansem (still the real one) says a whole lot of weird stuff that's bound to make me upset when I finally get around to KH3, and also Sora is totally awake now, because those questions Riku was answering earlier was the key to doing that.
Riku leaves Sora's heart and goes back to the waking world for good. Here we see Sora having a tea party with Donald and Goofy and wearing a fake mustache.
What the fuck is this game.

Final bits, for real now. We learn that Lea is now a Keyblade wielder because he was just that popular of a character I guess. Riku gets to pass the exam, Sora gets Ash Ketchum'ed and has to try again later. Sora leaves to hang out in the dream world again with his Pokémon friends for a little bit. Ventus, still resting in Castle Oblivion smiles a little bit. The end.
The secret ending is... Mickey and Yen Sid coming to terms with the fact that they're forced to be part of Xehanort's plan to enact the Keyblade War, because if they don't fulfill their role as the seven Guardians of Light, Xehanort will just go after the seven Princesses of Heart, which are apparently the source of all of the light in the world. Also Kairi is going to be a Keyblade wielder. Remember Kairi? Yeah, she didn't have a single line of dialogue in this entire game.

THE END