An attempt at a Kingdom Hearts update:
Okay, I'm going just going to go straight into this, because I try to gather my thoughts I won't be able to get this thing written out, so here goes!
I went into Coded expecting a bizarrely cobbled together asset flip, telling a weird little story that was largely inconsequential to the overall series, and overall that is what I got, but it just got so much weirder than I expected.

So, a bit of context. Jiminy Cricket is the one diagetically keeping a journal of your adventure in the first game. This journal gets erased in Chain of Memories when Naminé makes Sora and the gang lose thier memories. By the end of that game they put in a note that says "Thank Naminé" since they are going to forget everything that's happened in Castle Oblivion once Naminé puts everything back in order.
Re:Coded takes place at some point after Kingdom Hearts II and for some reason a little bit of teenage poetry has suddenly appeared on one of the previously blank pages in the journal. Jiminy decides to investigate and gets Chip and Dale to build a machine to digitize the journal because... uhm, the journal somehow has... memories of the stuff that used to be written inside of it?
Ah, but we can't actually read those entries, because it's all clogged up with "bugs" that are corrupting the data. So the only solution is to find the bit of data in the journal that makes out Sora's entry and then hack him a keyblade.
Then the next long stretch of time is spent revisiting Kingdom Hearts 1 worlds much like we already did in Chain of Memories and 358/2 Days. Occasionally something shows up that wasn't in the original journal, like, the starteling revelation that the reason we didn't see Pluto for most of Kingdom Hearts 1 was because he jumped into a corridor of darkness.

Every cleared world is also accompanied by another little bit of teenage poetry delivered by the data version of Riku who is in disguise until the plot allows him to reveal that he is also the journal itself, contained an archive of all of the data as a sort of backup copy.
Oh, but before we get the reveal of Riku.zip we first have to reveal that Mickey, Donald and Goofy all also got transported inside of the journal's datascape when Data Sora beat the first world, but they didn't realize it until Data Sora broke down the door into the computer room, because they just got transported into a perfect replica of the room they were already in.

I think it's also around this point in time that the journal gets hacked by Pete and Maleficent so that the good guys can't escape out into the real world.
It's really hard to tell what the gameplay loop of this game is actually like, but as far as I can tell you slap around Heartless much as you usually do while also wacking big scary red cubes that represent the corrupt sectors of the journal data. Maybe the cubes also attack you.
Anyway, we keep going through Disney worlds for a little bit until Maleficent shows up and destroys Sora's keyblade and kidnaps Riku.zip to get at that yummy data inside of him.
Data Sora of course fights his way to him anyway with the help of his friends, who he doesn't actually know/remember and by the end Data Sora apparently grows a heart and manages to summon a true Keyblade inside of a data replica. Unfortunately Riku.zip has been, and I quote, "filled with bugs" by Pete. So Sora now has to enter Riku's data directly while already inside a computer simulation, inception style.
The next stretch of the cutscene compilation almost plays out as more of a date between Riku and Sora than anything else. They go around and talk about their feelings while Sora punches some glitchy blocks to debug him and I'm just reminded of how little Kairi gets to be an actual character in these games. She doesn't even have voice lines in this title. I think we only see her for a few seconds, in a memoery that the game itself says doesn't even belong to Sora. 

Anyway, once all this is done, the game reaches a critical mass of nonsense... uh... I'm going to try my best here. The data version of Sora's Heartless in the first game seems to be at the a heart of the bugs, or maybe it was a secret bug that was somehow missed. There's something about the jornal being connected with Sora (real Sora, not Data Sora)...?? They make a point of saying that a heart cannot be digitized, therefore the Heartless in the datascape don't actually have any hearts to released once they are defeated, but they still release... minds? and... dark data?? All of this gathers and makes Sora's digital Heartless really big and strong and it feeds on glitches. Uh, I think they also say that this is somehow why the journal didn't go back to normal once Sora's memories were restored?? And then Riku has the gall, the sheer audacity to say that all of this, and I quote, "makes sense". I think we paused the game for a good ten minutes until we were done screaming at the screen.

Uhm... Data Sora defeats his Data Heartless and the journal data is saved, but everything gets reset and that means that all of the data entries except Riku.zip lose their memories... uh, now we can actually finally get to the mysterious bits of the journal which contains data that Jiminy didn't actually write but at this point it's too late and I have to cut the update short 😅 